Mr President , Commissioner , thank you for your efforts . 
I feel reassured to hear your answer and I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Commission officials for their work . 
Commission officials have admitted that Finland is blatantly violating Community and single-market rules . 
The Finns are desperately waiting for those EU rights that they are entitled to and which they were promised . 
Mr Commissioner , I hope you do not find this too heavy , but their hopes are lying on your shoulders . 
We know we can count on you . 
Mr President , that is not the problem . 
If the leader of the second largest grouping deems it necessary to use the other system , we should not discuss the matter and do so . 
If that is their wish and they feel more comfortable doing so , we should give them that possibility . 
Mr President , thank you for that statement . 
We will send someone to Colombia to see what we can do as a European Group and we hope , within a few weeks , to have a different option than simply to deplore that our candidate has been kidnapped . 
Commissioner , I appreciate your answer and your effort generally regarding the environment in Europe , but what you say is simply not coherent with everyday facts . 
When this was implemented in Finland it was mainly based on old protection schemes , which do not meet directive criteria for Natura 2000 sites . 
Therefore , you must understand the position of the private landowners . 
Their right to use their own land was wrongly prohibited and in fact , contrary to what you say , the appeals in the Finnish courts were handled en bloc . 
99 times out of 100 they were rejected outright . 
People therefore feel frustrated and powerless . 
You were accompanied by representatives of the PPE-DE and the PSE Groups . 
Have you forgotten , Mr President , that there are other Groups in this Parliament who could also have accompanied you ? 
Why did you take only the two largest groups ? 
I do not understand this and I would like you to give me an answer . 
However , I take note of the initiative that is mentioned , which is a very worthwhile and welcome one . 
I will certainly take note of the suggestion that she made . 
I will certainly take note of her last proposition . 
. I really have nothing to add to the point I made in answer to the original question . 
Neither of the exchanges suggests that I should do so . 
. My colleagues and I appreciate Mrs Kinnock 's continued keen interest in this particular matter . 
. Mr President , I am very pleased to have the opportunity to make a statement on the current situation in the Intergovernmental Conference and I look forward to hearing your views . 
As you know , in accordance with our mandate from the Brussels European Council , we have been consulting widely with our partners . 
Several more meetings are scheduled over the coming weeks . 
Foreign Minister Cowen and I have also talked to and met with as many of our counterparts as possible . 
We also discussed the IGC over lunch at last Monday 's meeting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council . 
Notwithstanding the importance of bilateral consultations , we felt that it was also important to recognise the collective nature of the IGC and to have an informal discussion of where we stand . 
I was very gratified that there was full support for our approach at the General Affairs Council . 
The discussion was a positive one -- there is considerable common ground . 
In these consultations with our partners and all those involved in the IGC , including of course the European Parliament , we are seeking to build a complete picture of the situation in the IGC . 
I do not wish at this stage to speculate about what that statement will contain . 
We do not underestimate the complexity of our task . 
The issues to be resolved may be few in number , but they are highly sensitive and difficult . 
We will try to encourage progress , to build mutual understanding and to identify common ground . 
However , we can not compel agreement in the absence of the shared political will to achieve it . 
There is an obligation on everyone to think not only of their own interests , but of the collective interest of the Union as a whole . 
In that context I want to reiterate the point made by the Taoiseach in Strasbourg , and also by the Minister for Foreign Affairs , Mr Cowen , before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last week : ` If it emerges that there is a real prospect of achieving an agreement during our presidency , then we will not hesitate to seize that opportunity ' . 
We intend to submit the fullest possible report to the European Council . 
The Convention opened up the process of Treaty change and brought fresh perspectives to bear . 
By incorporating the Charter of Fundamental Rights , the draft enhances the prominence of human rights in the work of the Union . 
The values and objectives of the Union are more clearly expressed . 
Its proposals on the creation of a single European Union Foreign Minister and External Action Service should make the Union 's external policies more effective and coherent . 
In due course it will be our duty to seek national ratification , in some cases through referenda . 
The efforts of the Italian presidency ensured that considerable progress was made in resolving most of the points raised by governments . 
The work done in the run up to the Naples Conclave in late November 2003 , and at Naples itself , was very productive . 
The paper prepared immediately in advance of the European Council was particularly valuable and struck a very careful balance . 
While , of course , nothing is agreed until everything is agreed , and while there are aspects of the Italian presidency 's good work which were not the subject of final consensus , we believe we must try , as far as possible , to maintain the excellent progress which has been made . 
When Minister Cowen appeared before the Constitutional Affairs Committee , he gave an assurance that the Irish presidency would be open , fair and balanced , and that we would listen to all views and work to accommodate them . 
I want to repeat that message here today . 
We have no hidden agendas , no pet projects . 
We are determined that nobody will be able to question our even-handedness . 
. Mr President , I would like to take up the old phrase used by Mr Poettering during his contribution to this debate : ` where there is a will , there is a way ' . 
In this particular case , where there is a political will , a way can be found . 
That is the reality as far as this constitutional treaty is concerned . 
Members are aware , as I am , that the prize to be won in this debate , a constitutional treaty which is lucid and clear , even visionary , involving all the people of Europe , is a formidable prize . 
The European people and the governments of the Member States in working together have indeed shown that Europe is capable of doing formidable things . 
A huge amount of work has already been done and the Irish presidency is fully aware of this . 
Many Members have asked about the particular text and its starting point . 
The reality of all negotiations is that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed . 
We are working day and night to bring about the political will . 
On a humorous note , Mr Fatuzzo pointed out that we are all getting older . 
Indeed , he is quite right : none of us are getting any younger . 
He also suggested that we should offer plastic surgery to old-age pensioners . 
The prize is a formidable one , it would be marvellous if we could attain it sooner rather than later . 
Mr President , at its meeting on 26 January 2004 , the Council examined the draft decision on a Statute for Members of the European Parliament . 
The discussion was based on the text as voted by Parliament on 3 and 4 June 2003 , and on its subsequent resolution voted on 17 December 2003 . 
In light of the request of Parliament that the Council respond as a matter of urgency to its resolution of 17 December , the presidency ensured that the matter was ready for consideration by ministers at the first available opportunity -- last week 's Council meeting . 
Qualified majority support is , as Members will be aware , required for all Articles of the draft Statute with the exception of Article 12 which , in the consolidated text , deals with taxation , and that , of course , requires unanimity . 
The presidency 's approach , therefore , was to ascertain if a qualified majority existed on all aspects of the proposal other than taxation and -- if that was the case -- to reconfirm that the Council unanimously approved the taxation elements , an integral part of the overall proposal . 
In the interests of full transparency , I want to clarify that the basis on which the presidency invited Council to take a decision was that the proposed salary level for MEPs would be 50 % of the salary of a Judge at the Court of Justice at the time of the relevant Parliament resolution -- EUR 8 670 a month . 
The presidency 's objective was to secure political agreement on the draft Statute . 
Our approach has been clear all along . 
In presenting the matter to the Council this week , the presidency restated in some detail its approach and its assessment of the situation . 
While it was evident that most members of the Council could support the package , believing that the Parliament had responded to the concerns of the Council , four members of the Council expressed their continued difficulties with the proposals and could not give their support . 
Following this indication of positions , the presidency was obliged to conclude that the requisite support for the draft Statute , in accordance with the terms of Article 190 ( 5 ) of the Treaty , was not available . 
It was therefore not necessary to test whether unanimity could be confirmed on the taxation elements . 
It is important to be clear on one point in particular : the presidency spared no effort to ensure that Council would take an informed decision . 
Intensive preparatory work was undertaken in advance of the discussions by ministers . 
Clarification on particular areas of concern to Member States was sought from the Parliament and was , in our view , forthcoming . 
In all of this , I would like to acknowledge the assistance and support the presidency received from this Parliament and in particular from you personally , President Cox . 
Clearly I would have preferred to bring a different and more positive message to this House today . 
Unfortunately that is not possible . 
I feel it is important that , as presidency , I give you a clear and unambiguous statement of where matters stand . 
I should like to thank you once again , Mr Cox , for all the support and effort you put into this very important venture . 
The negotiations ahead will be of fundamental importance for the development of the enlarged Union well into the next decade . 
What is at issue , therefore , is much more than the financial framework for the Union . 
It is also the policies and priorities which can best address the aspirations of your citizens . 
As mentioned by the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets , Mr Wynn , the negotiations will run well into 2005 . 
However , the Irish presidency will begin discussions and give priority to advancing the dossier as effectively as possible . 
The President of the Commission will brief Coreper tomorrow , and on 23 February there will be a first discussion by ministers at the General Affairs and External Relations Council . 
Our aim as presidency will be to initiate and advance discussions and , in cooperation with succeeding presidencies , to map out how best to process the dossier and lay a solid foundation for our successors . 
We hope in this regard that the spring European Council might be able to agree on the calendar and process for negotiations . 
The Council looks forward to working constructively with Parliament and the Commission in advancing this important dossier . 
With your permission , Mr President , may I finally join with you , Mr Wynn and others in the warm expressions of congratulations and goodwill to Mr Colom i Naval and to wish him all the very best for the future . 
. -- Mr President , I am very happy to address you today in relation to the preparations for the Spring European Council and the IGC follow-up . 
As you will be aware from our detailed discussions on the Lisbon strategy at the last part-session , the Irish presidency is determined that the primary focus of the Spring European Council should be , as set out at Lisbon and Gothenburg , the follow-up to the Lisbon strategy with a strong emphasis on implementation and the need to target specific areas for concerted action by the Union . 
The future financial perspectives and current issues on the international agenda will also be addressed . 
The presidency has consistently reiterated the need for the Spring European Council to give a strong signal as to the continued importance of the Lisbon strategy in providing a framework for simultaneous progress on economic , social and environmental renewal throughout the Union . 
When I addressed Parliament last month , I outlined the issues on which we intend to focus at the Spring European Council on 25 and 26 March . 
I am pleased that Member States share our conviction that the agenda for the European Council should remain focused , and have given broad support for our approach of concentrating on a limited number of key issues . 
Similarly , Member States have also agreed that the overreaching priorities for the Council should be those of sustainable growth and employment as identified by us in the first draft of the annotated agenda issued on 17 February . 
The Commission communication on the future financial perspectives -- ` Building our Common Future ' -- was launched here on 10 February by Commission President Prodi . 
The presidency 's approach , which has been agreed by Member States , is that while no discussion is expected , the Spring European Council should agree conclusions on the procedure to be followed in considering the dossier over the coming months . 
The Taoiseach will present the Irish presidency 's report on where matters stand in the Intergovernmental Conference . 
It is intended that this will be discussed over dinner on the first evening by the Heads of State and Government . 
It is the presidency 's intention to invite representatives of observers at the IGC , including the President of the European Parliament , to be present . 
On the basis of our report and following discussions at the dinner , it will then be for the European Council to decide how best to proceed , and in particular whether the time is ripe for the IGC to be re-convened . 
I hope you will understand that it is not appropriate for me at this time to go into any detail on what that report will contain . 
The Taoiseach owes it to his colleagues to present matters to them in a very direct manner . 
However , I would offer the following observations . 
In keeping with our mandate from Brussels in December , the Irish presidency has consulted widely among participants in the IGC , including the European Parliament . 
The Taoiseach has spoken with all other members of the European Council . 
Intensive and detailed discussions have also taken place at ministerial and official levels . 
Partners have agreed with us in good faith and in a positive and constructive way . 
We very much appreciated the constructive and frank way they have dealt with us . 
More generally , Parliament 's strong support for our efforts is greatly appreciated . 
In particular , you have tried to keep us and partners focused on the big picture , on the immense prize which adoption of the Constitution would represent , and on the very significant and considerable dangers for our Union which would flow from a continued stalemate . 
In our consultations , we have confirmed that there is a range of outstanding institutional and non-institutional issues , of varying complexity and sensitivity , which have been raised with us . 
Most of these were identified by the Italian presidency in the paper published ahead of the meeting of the European Council in December , though others are also on the table . 
We have gone through all of these questions carefully and in some significant detail . 
While there has been particular public focus on the institutional side of things , I can assure Parliament that our discussions with partners are not limited to those aspects of the draft Constitutional Treaty . 
Our broad sense is that , while there are a reasonable number of outstanding issues , on the great majority it will be relatively easy to find consensus in the context of a process leading to an overall conclusion . 
Moreover , we have ascertained that there are many other issues , including some of considerable importance , on which there is effectively already agreement -- although formally nothing is agreed until everything is agreed . 
Of course , the great bulk of the Convention 's text has not been called into question at any stage of the IGC , and I am glad to say that very much remains the case . 
I can not say today whether it will be possible for the IGC to conclude its work during the Irish presidency . 
We have made it clear to this Parliament and we have made it clear in many statements that we are anxious and ambitious to achieve a resolution . 
It is also , however , very important to put it on the record that 25 Member States and 25 governments have a responsibility in this matter : it does not come down to the presidency . 
Whether it is decided to convene a further meeting of the IGC in the near future is very much a matter of judgment for the European Council . 
However , I can say , and I have said it several times , that if political will is present , it will be easy to find a solution to the outstanding issues . 
The key to early agreement is political willingness to agree . 
It is now over two years since the European Convention began its work . 
The issues have been debated intensively and extensively . 
At this point , I do not believe that outstanding differences will become easier to resolve over time . 
I have said this on several occasions in the last week or two : the difficulties that exist today will be more difficult in the future . 
In the second half of this year it will not be any easier to resolve the issues . 
There is a whole series of other issues that will make it more complex . 
Parliament will change , the Commission will change , the political players will change and it would be unwise to take the view that we have time on our side . 
There are important issues to be considered in the second half of this year . 
I continue to believe that the new Constitution is profoundly in the interests of the Union and its citizens . 
It is a quantum leap forward in terms of clarity and accessibility . 
It will provide the Union with a solid foundation for its future growth and its future development . 
It will enable the Union to respond more effectively to the concerns of citizens and to play a more dynamic role in the wider world . 
In a sense it is a prize well worth striving for . 
If there is a will to compromise -- and let there be no doubt that without some compromise on all sides there will be no agreement -- then I believe it should be possible to move things forward rapidly . 
As we have said before , if there is a serious possibility of progress , the Irish presidency will immediately move to seize that possibility . 
. -- Mr President , I wish to thank all the Members who have contributed to the debate . 
Mr Watson made a very interesting link between the future prospects for Europe and the new Constitution . 
He suggested that we should move in tandem in both cases . 
Mr Watson and Mr Collins also made a very clear point about the importance of the Lisbon Strategy and the need to keep Lisbon to the fore . 
Again , they are right . 
Mrs Sudre has just made a very interesting point about the significance of the strategy in terms of the future . 
The Spring European Council and the Lisbon Strategy are key priorities of the Irish presidency , and we look forward to a successful and focussed debate on the vital questions regarding the future economic , social and environmental development of the Union . 
It is interesting that many of the key issues raised during the debate are ones we have indicated in our preparation and on which we have decided to focus . 
Our strategy approaching the Lisbon discussion has been to limit the number of areas , and to focus on these in order to make progress . 
I was intrigued by all the comments made on the Intergovernmental Conference and the Constitutional Treaty . 
The views of the clear and overwhelming majority of this House confirm to me the urgency of the task at hand . 
Mr Duff kindly drew my attention to a motion that is being prepared for adoption by the House . 
As Mr Barón Crespo reminded us , the recent Eurobarometer poll shows that the people of Europe want a Constitutional Treaty . 
That is a very significant poll . 
I note that there are variations in the level of support for the Constitutional Treaty , but the fact that the people want a Constitutional Treaty is something that should weigh heavily in all our considerations . 
My good friend and fellow member of the Convention , Mr Voggenhuber , can rest assured that I well remember the day at the Convention when we chinked glasses , listened to the Ode to Joy and all signed a very large postcard . 
I must say that I do not recognise the rather negative characterisation of the Constitution by another good friend -- Mr Bonde . 
I agree with Mrs Doyle , who was much closer to the mark , that this Constitution certainly does not pave the way for some super-state . 
As I have already mentioned , I am not in a position today to go into greater depth on the issues . 
I fully understand Members ' frustration . 
However , Members understand equally fully that negotiations are at a stage at which it is impossible to be more detailed than we have been . 
We have entered into discussions in confidence with Member States . 
We understand fully that people belong to different States and have different views . 
The presidency 's job is to try and create a space in which people can come together to negotiate and align those views . 
I therefore understand the frustration at there not having been more detail , and would also confirm that the presidency is anxious to seize any opportunity that exists . 
We note that there have been changes in attitudes in recent times . 
Mr Brok was also correct . 
Mr van den Berg also made a very interesting point . 
He said that the presidency must bear in mind that a second unsuccessful rendezvous would be a disaster . 
He is quite correct and we must balance all these issues as we move forward . 
A number of Members -- particularly Mr Napoletano -- have made the point about detail . 
He has spoken with me on more than one occasion about the outstanding issues . 
On the institutional side , there are obvious issues to be resolved , including the questions of representation in Parliament , voting in the Council and the composition of the Commission , while detailed suggestions have been made in relation to the EU Foreign Minister and the presidency of the Council ministries . 
On the non-institutional side , there are different approaches to the question of the extent of qualified majority voting in the Council . 
This is not stating anything new , but these are the issues . 
We will need to strike an overall balance in order to reach agreement . 
Let me turn specifically to some of the matters . 
In response to a number of enquiries regarding the issue of voting rights , the presidency 's view on this has been made absolutely clear . 
The Taoiseach has said that a solution based on dual majority is the one most likely to achieve an overall consensus . 
In fact , it is clear that is how the decision will be made on voting rights . 
There continue to be different views as to how the dual majority will be calculated . 
However , it is interesting and intriguing -- and a number of Members have made reference to this -- that we are indeed now talking about a dual majority system . 
As regards the Commission , there is a shared view that we need a strong and effective Commission . 
There is also a need to find an appropriate balance between equality , the equally valid requirements for the Commission to be effective and for it to have some form of representational view . 
Any agreement will have to take all these considerations into account and it will not be difficult to bridge all the different requirements . 
Mr Barón Crespo and a number of other speakers also mentioned the issue of the budget . 
On the question of the budget , I believe the balanced approach is the one most likely to secure agreement . 
The Italian presidency made a proposal in December which built on that brought forward by the Convention and on the discussions it had with partners in the IGC . 
In conclusion , I very much enjoyed today 's debate . 
I have to say that I was heartened by it and I am very grateful to Members for their positive words and encouragement . 
Commissioner Kinnock made the point that the IGC is stage one . 
This was also touched on by a number of other contributors . 
Stage one is agreement at Member State government level and the next stage will be to go on to the various and multifarious ratification processes . 
This leads me back to the point I made in my introduction : delay will not help the ratification process . 
. -- Mr President , at the outset I would like to thank Mr Brok for his very frank and interesting report on the accession states . 
I would also like to thank Mr Van Orden for his insightful report on Bulgaria , and Baroness Nicholson for her thorough and honest report on Romania . 
It is a great honour for me to participate , on behalf of the Council , in your debate on enlargement today . 
For many years , I lectured students in University College , Dublin , on the European Union and sought to impress upon them how remarkable our Union is . 
We are now on the eve of another remarkable breakthrough . 
Enlargement represents one of the most exciting and positive developments , not just in the history of the European Union but in European history as a whole . 
The ideal of a united , peaceful Europe is behind every effort at European integration over the past fifty years and this enlargement plays a significant part in making that peace a reality . 
In less than two months , the Union will welcome ten new Member States . 
For many years enlargement has been a mere aspiration ; soon it will be realised . 
The European Union is rectifying a past wrong : the artificial division of Europe , which lasted for far too long after two appallingly disastrous world wars . 
As presidency , Ireland will be privileged to welcome the new Member States on behalf of the Union on 1 May . 
We look forward greatly to this day , which will be celebrated around Europe and which we in Ireland will celebrate throughout the country as a special ` Day of Welcomes ' for our new partners . 
The new Member States have come through a long and difficult process to get where they are today . 
It is an exciting moment for them and for us . 
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe have very rapidly established stable democracies and functioning market systems . 
The deep reforms carried out were monitored and reviewed closely by the Commission in its regular reports throughout the period of negotiations and most recently in its monitoring reports . 
The Commission 's comprehensive monitoring reports , published last November , illustrate clearly the huge amount of work done in the new Member States . 
More importantly , I want to compliment the new Member States for their efforts . 
However , while recognising that there have been many achievements to date , it is important not to become complacent . 
We encourage newly acceding states to continue their efforts for the final two months until accession : now is not a time to rest on their oars . 
We ask them to concentrate particularly on the areas identified by the Commission as requiring urgent attention and on the effective implementation and enforcement of measures already adopted . 
It goes without saying that the more work done now , the quicker the newly acceding Member States can benefit fully from membership . 
We are confident that any difficulties can and will be overcome . 
The Treaty of Accession contains a number of safeguard clauses designed to protect the Union from unforeseen disturbances arising as a result of accession . 
In addition , other measures are available to the Commission to protect the internal market , if necessary . 
The smooth and effective integration of the new Member States is one of the highest priorities of the Irish presidency . 
The hard work of the new Member States has been recognised , not only by the Commission in its regular and monitoring reports , but also by the excellent report drawn up by Mr Brok . 
The enlargement has been described as the best-prepared enlargement ever and I think that is a fair description of what has been done . 
Already the newly acceding Member States are sitting around the Council table and in Parliament . 
They participated fully , actively and very constructively in the work of the European Convention and in the ensuing Intergovernmental Conference on the Constitutional Treaty . 
The new Member States are already making valuable input to all aspects of the Union 's business and from 1 May , they will have full voting rights as well and will contribute fully to the formation of the Union 's policies . 
I believe they will make a remarkable impact on the way we do our business . 
Support among the new Member States for accession was demonstrated by the referenda which were held in nine of the ten countries throughout 2003 . 
In addition , the process of ratification of the Treaty of Accession has seen the parliaments of many current Member States express strong support for enlargement . 
It is important to underline that enlargement is good not only for the newly acceding Member States but -- as Mr Brok reminded us -- it is also good for the present Member States . 
The Union as a whole stands to benefit . 
Of course , the process of enlargement does not end on 1 May . 
As we have been reminded , Bulgaria and Romania are both advanced in negotiations . 
I listened carefully to Mr Van Orden 's report on Bulgaria , having met with Meglena Kuneva last week to discuss the position . 
I was also very interested to hear Baroness Nicholson 's very frank and honest report . 
Last December , the European Council set out a very clear timeframe for the conclusion of negotiations in 2004 with both countries , subject of course to their individual state of readiness , with a view to their accession in January 2007 . 
One of the key issues remaining to be agreed among Member States is the financial framework for accession of the two states . 
Since the Commission published its draft financial package in February , intensive negotiations have been underway to secure agreement among Member States , which the presidency is endeavouring to obtain by the March session of the General Affairs and External Relations Council . 
Reaching agreement on the financial package will permit the Union to carry forward the negotiations in the remaining finance-related chapters with both countries . 
The Irish presidency is striving to advance progress in accession negotiations to the greatest degree possible . 
The presidency will ensure that negotiations with both countries are governed by the same principles that guided negotiations with the ten new Member States , notably that of their own individual merits . 
It is worth recalling that Bulgaria and Romania are part of an irreversible inclusive enlargement process . 
The pace of negotiations will continue to be determined by progress on the ground and we urge Bulgaria and Romania to ensure full implementation of commitments undertaken to date . 
The Union will continue to monitor very closely the performance of both countries and has noted carefully the views of Parliament , as expressed in particular in the resolutions under consideration today . 
In conclusion , this enlargement is one of the most remarkable achievements of the Union to date . 
On behalf of the presidency of the Council , I wish to thank Parliament , and you the Members of Parliament , for the very positive and constructive approach taken since the very beginning of the process . 
We believe that the Union and its citizens stand to benefit greatly from this exciting endeavour . 
This is a remarkable moment , a defining moment in the history of Europe , and one in which we can all take considerable satisfaction . 
. -- Mr President , I would like to thank the Members who took part in this debate . 
I myself have witnessed at first hand on my visits to the accession states the quite extraordinary progress that has been made and Members have rightly drawn attention to that progress . 
There is still work to be done , but a huge amount of work has already been achieved . 
Parliament has addressed this issue in a most effective manner . 
I wish to express my gratitude to Members for the role they have played in the very important task of communicating to the citizens of their countries the unique and extraordinarily important moment we have reached in terms of enlargement . 
I agree also with what Commissioner Verheugen said this morning on the need to send out a positive message -- and it is a remarkably positive message . 
I can not understand how democrats can not see just how remarkable the moment will be on 1 May when Europe will be reunited and when the most extraordinary event will come about without the firing of a single shot , as one or two Members have said . 
The presidency has full confidence in the Commission 's ability to manage a smooth transition to membership of the accession states . 
I have already paid a personal tribute in this regard to Commissioner Verheugen . 
The presidency at the same time urges the newly-acceding states to complete their preparations and in particular to complete preparation in areas where problems have been identified by the Commission . 
With regard to Bulgaria and Romania , we had two fine reports before us today from Mr Van Orden and Baroness Nicholson . 
The presidency intends , in partnership with these countries and with the Commission , to ensure the application of the fundamental principle of this enlargement process and in particular the principle that each negotiation will be based on the merits of the individual case . 
The European Union will continue to monitor very closely the commitments made and the effective implementation of the in order to guide both countries in their preparation for membership . 
The presidency urges both countries to continue carrying out these preparations energetically . 
We are determined to do as much as possible to carry out the mandate of the European Council of December and to finish the negotiations this year . 
Welcoming both countries into the Union in January 2007 remains the European Union 's objective . 
A number of Members specifically mentioned issues relating to Cyprus and Turkey . 
We welcome the agreement of the parties to resume the negotiation process for a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem within the framework of the Secretary-General 's mission of good offices . 
The Council fully supports Secretary-General Annan 's efforts for the conclusion of an agreement , and we remain ready to accommodate the terms of a settlement , in line with the principles on which the Union is founded . 
I hope that the parties will redouble their efforts to reach agreement in the talks that are under way , and this clearly is in the interests of all the people of Cyprus . 
As we prepare for the European Union decision in relation to Turkey in December , we must also welcome the progress that Turkey has made to date in legislation for reform . 
Minister Cowen highlighted the crucial importance of moving ahead with the practical implementation of reforms at all levels of the administration and throughout the country when he led the EU Troika meeting with Foreign Minister Gül in Ankara on Monday last . 
Minister Cowen reiterated the assurance to Minister Gül that , if the European Council decides in December that Turkey fulfils the Copenhagen political criteria , the EU is committed to opening negotiations . 
A number of other issues were dealt with , but I want to return to one issue -- the question of free movement and migration . 
A number of Members made the point that there is no evidence whatsoever to support some of the more scaremongering stories that have been spread in this regard . 
I welcome those particular contributions . 
Certainly at this point there is absolutely no evidence to suggest that the floodgates will open as and from 1 May next . 
At best , this is tabloid hysteria . 
The study by the European Commission and the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions shows that , even under conditions of full freedom of movement , migration from all the new Member States to all current Member States is likely to be about 1 % of the working-age population of the new Member States over the next five years . 
That is hardly a flood ! 
The study shows that typical potential migrants are young and extremely well educated -- the very type of people we need in the Union . 
It also shows that they are single , with no dependants , and that there is a high propensity for them to return to their native homes . 
The study confirms the view of the European Commission that fears of a huge wave of migration from the new Member States after 1 May are unfounded . 
I mention this point in particular because I know from the domestic debates on referenda in Ireland how easy it is for people of ill intent to misrepresent what in fact is the position . 
The reality is that Europe should be a Europe that welcomes the ten accession states and that we should fully meet all our obligations to the ten states . 
In conclusion , I wish to thank the Members . 
It has been a very thought-provoking and thorough debate . 
. -- The presidency will be submitting an assessment of the prospects for progress in the Intergovernmental Conference to the European Council in March , as agreed at the European Council in December 2003 . 
However , it is not for the presidency , speaking on behalf of the Council , to express an opinion on the issues raised in the honourable Member 's question . 
The Council has neither discussed nor taken a view on the question of a two-speed Europe . 
It is not on the agenda . 
. -- As I said at the outset , the issue of a two-speed Europe is not on the agenda and I am not going to speculate on this issue . 
I am aware of , and in my statement this morning made reference to , many of the other issues that are of concern in the context of the IGC . 
But the main point is that this issue of a two-speed Europe is not on the agenda in the context of our considerations in the IGC . 
. -- As both the Council and the Commission have repeatedly made clear in the European Parliament , the decision of 5 June 2003 was part of a package of measures taken following the violation by the Cuban authorities last year of international human rights standards . 
This took the form of the summary trial and lengthy prison sentences imposed on a large number of dissidents for exercising their right to freedom of speech and participation in public affairs , as well as the summary trial and the rapid execution of three hijackers of a ferry boat , in breach of international minimum standards for the implementation of the death penalty . 
The four measures announced on 5 June 2003 were symbolic and political in nature and therefore their implementation concerns only the governments of the European Union Member States and their officials . 
It does not affect the private sector or individual citizens , who are free to attend the Cuban Book Fair and indeed any other cultural event organised by the government of Cuba if they so wish . 
Regarding the private opinions mentioned in the question , the Council has no comment to make on what those attending the fair may have had to say . 
They have the right to express their views , even if their views are wrong . 
Once again the EU calls on the Cuban authorities to release all political prisoners without delay and to resume the de facto moratorium on the death penalty . 
The Council reaffirms the continuing validity of the common position as the basis of the European Union 's constructive engagement with Cuba , to be pursued through political dialogue so that tangible results can be achieved , particularly in the political , economic and civil rights areas . 
. -- The words I used were very specific . 
As I mentioned , the measures were symbolic and political in their nature and therefore the implementation concerns only governments and EU Member States . 
They do not have a direct implication so far as individual citizens are concerned . 
I also make the point that the measures which were announced on 5 June were taken only after the most careful deliberations . 
It was the Council 's considered view at that time that the application of the measures represented a balance between maintaining the willingness to engage in political dialogue to allow for tangible results , and the necessity to make it clear that grave human rights violations such as those that have occurred in Cuba in the last 12 months were not acceptable . 
I am sure that Mr Martínez would accept that is the position . 
Finally on a general issue regarding the EU and Cuba : the measures adopted by the Council were very carefully calibrated . 
Some people might say that they are very mild , but the are proportionate in response to specific circumstances . 
The European Union values this relationship with Cuba and hopes that those relations can be improved . 
It is mutually beneficial to aim for an improvement in that regard . 
. -- The supplementary question goes rather beyond the question from Mr Martínez Martínez . 
If Mr Ortuondo Larrea wants to table a question on a specific issue he may have in mind , I will answer it . 
. -- I am sure that everything the Member has said is quite correct . 
I am sure Cuba is an intriguing and interesting country . 
The diplomatic measures announced on 5 June were intended to send a signal to the Cuban authorities that the new and grave violations of human rights simply were not acceptable . 
The measures were not designed to isolate Cuba in any way . 
On the contrary , in reconfirming the validity of the common position on Cuba on 21 July 2003 , the Council stressed that political dialogue should be continued with a view to producing tangible results , particularly in the political , economic and rights spheres . 
The Council remains very much open to political dialogue . 
With regard to the point made about the impact , the Cuban Government is aware that the Council acknowledges its significant achievements in the field of social rights such as health and education . 
However , it remains our earnest hope that the Cuban authorities will come to realise the necessity to make similar advances in the field of fundamental civil , political and human rights . 
The same level of achievement in those areas as in the areas mentioned by the honourable Member would be very welcome . 
. -- The Council does not have any specific information regarding the issues raised in Question H-0075 / 04 regarding the transfer of passenger data to NASA by Northwest Airlines , and is thus not really in a position to answer fully the questions raised by the honourable Member . 
The Council understands that the honourable Member has also referred his question directly to the Commission , which is the competent body in relation to most of the issues . 
However , I would say that detailed enquiries of this kind come within the competences of the data protection authorities in the various Member States . 
The competences of the data protection authorities in this case would be those linked to the specific flights concerned . 
For instance , for data collected concerning a flight between Boston and London Gatwick , the United Kingdom authority would be the competent authority , whilst for data collected on a flight between Boston and Amsterdam , the Dutch authorities would be responsible . 
As I said at the outset , I have not enough material to give a more comprehensive answer to the Member . 
I am sure the Member will understand that , within the range of material I have , this is as comprehensive as I can be . 
. -- I would draw the Member 's attention to the fact that it is not an issue of time , it is more an issue of competence . 
The competent authorities in this particular case , as I said in my main response , are the privacy authorities in the individual Member States . 
The competence lies at national authority level , not at this level . 
. -- The supplementary question touches on the issue of the transfer of name records . 
The general question of the transfer to the US authorities of name records for transatlantic flights is of great concern to the Council . 
We are not questioning either the concerns of the Members or particularly the concerns that Mr Cappato outlined in his original point . 
This matter is the subject of ongoing discussions and negotiations with the United States . 
Following the unilateral introduction last year of a US requirement on European airlines to provide passenger name records on flights into the US , the European Union has been working to establish a legally secured framework for passenger name record transfers to US customs and to border protection bureaux . 
Every effort is being made in the current negotiations to enhance the legally binding nature of the undertaking so as to protect the privacy of European passenger data , which is the point made in the supplementary question . 
However , this is not simply an EU-US issue , as it is fully expected that passenger name record transfers will also be required by a number of other countries in the near future in order to enhance passenger security in general . 
The European Union is therefore pursing a global approach with regard to the transfer of such data for border and aviation security purposes . 
This is largely an initiative to create a multilateral framework for passenger name record data transfers under the auspices of the International Civil Aviation Organisation . 
It is proposed that any arrangement agreed with the US will be of an interim nature and will in due course be confirmed by international agreements . 
As regards the proposed EU-US international agreement on the transfer of name records , I would specifically mention that , as honourable Members will be aware , negotiations are still ongoing between the Commission -- and it is the Commission that is handling those negotiations -- and the US authorities . 
Once negotiations have been concluded this agreement will be submitted and it will be considered by this Parliament . 
. -- The Council has answered that part of the question . 
I would draw Ms McKenna 's attention specifically to the points I made with regard to the competence of national authorities -- in the case of the United Kingdom and in the case of the Dutch authorities -- in the area of data protection . 
The Member is also wrong when she chooses to ignore the reality that the Commission is conducting negotiations with the US authorities . 
It is misrepresenting the role of the Council to suggest that it is a Council function . 
It is not , as the Member well knows . 
. -- I should like to thank the Member for putting that question . 
The Council has duly taken note of the European Parliament 's resolution on the arms embargo on China . 
We will consider it , together with other elements in the ongoing examination of this topic . 
On 26 January the General Affairs and External Relations Council , in line with the invitation from the European Council of 12 December 2003 , invited Coreper and the Political Security Committee to look into this matter . 
The Council would like to stress once more that it has not set any specific date for decisions regarding the arms embargo on China . 
There seems to be some idea that a date has been set . 
There has not . 
The current rules for transparency will apply to the decision . 
. -- I am aware of Ms McKenna 's views on arms embargoes , which are not a million miles away from my own . 
The Council has taken account of the European Parliament 's resolution and will continue to do so . 
. -- This is a very serious matter . 
With regard to trafficking in human beings , the Council would like to refer to its reply to Oral Question H-0575 / 03 . 
As already pointed out in that reply , the comprehensive issue of trafficking in human beings needs to be addressed both at national and international level and needs to be dealt with within a broader context , which involves criminal law , asylum , immigration policies and preventative measures . 
A general agreement has been reached in the Council on a proposal for a Council directive on the residence permits issued to third-country nationals who have been victims of trafficking and who cooperate with the competent authorities . 
The purpose of the proposal is to offer victims who are willing to cooperate in proceedings against traffickers the possibility to remain in Member States for the duration of those proceedings and to obtain other benefits to assist them in escaping from the influence of the traffickers and returning to a normal life . 
Such other benefits may include , for example , access to employment , vocational training and education and other special programmes . 
This instrument , when adopted , will have an important role in the fight against traffickers . 
Formal adoption will be possible when Parliament has delivered its opinion . 
In addition to the framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings , which was adopted on 19 July 2002 , the Council adopted a framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography on 22 December 2003 . 
As far as border controls are concerned , the Council recalls that in 2002 two plans were submitted which contained a series of measures designed to achieve a higher level of security at the external borders and to combat trafficking in human beings . 
The first is a comprehensive plan to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings , which was approved by the Council in February 2002 . 
The second was the plan for the management of external borders of the Member States of the European Union , which was approved by the Council on 13 June 2002 . 
Both plans contain short - and long-term measures aimed at creating integrated border management . 
Since 2002 , various pilot projects and joint operations have been launched at the external borders . 
A network of Member State liaison officers has been created ; a common risk analysis model and a common core curriculum for border guard training has been established . 
They are very welcome measures . 
Various ad hoc centres were set up or are in the process of being established by Member States , each of which focuses on a specific type of border , for example an air-border centre , a land-border centre , or a sea-border centre . 
Furthermore , a centre for ad hoc border guard training and a risk analysis centre are also being set up . 
. -- I understand the Member 's concerns . 
This is a particularly pernicious and dreadful trade . 
Someone said earlier that it is the 21st century equivalent of slavery . 
It is something that belongs to the dark ages and I believe that every civilised human being would rightly criticise what is happening . 
I mentioned a number of events and the response I gave was comprehensive . 
Other joint operations are planned and will be carried out in the near future at land , sea and air borders in Member States and the accession countries -- which is the concern raised by the speaker . 
Furthermore , the Council is awarding special attention to the setting-up of a European agency for the management of cooperation at external borders , which will integrate ad hoc centres into an institutional framework within the Community . 
That would be very much in line with the Member 's thinking . 
On 27 November 2003 , for example , the Justice and Home Affairs Council adopted a conclusion on the main elements of this agency . 
It was agreed that this agency would , inter alia , coordinate the operational cooperation between Member States in the management of their external borders , assist Member States in the training of border guards , carry out the type of risk analysis that I have already mentioned , and assist Member States in circumstances requiring increased technical cooperation at borders . 
I hope that this answers the Member 's question . 
One of the extraordinary things about this particular pernicious trade is that its perpetrators have been extremely astute in the manner in which they have managed to smuggle their victims . 
The framework decision on combating the exploitation of children and child pornography relates to this whole area . 
It was adopted on 22 December 2003 and requires each Member State to take the necessary measures to ensure that all conduct relating to child pornography and child exploitation at an international scale is fully punishable . 
As I said , this is a pernicious trade carried out by ruthless people . 
It is the 21st century equivalent of slavery . 
However , any fair , objective analysis would suggest that the Union is addressing the issue on a significant number of fronts . 
. -- When you address the issue of the specific measures that I have mentioned , you are addressing the symptom and not the cause . 
The cause , of course , is poverty , criminality and a breakdown in civil society . 
The cause is also the extraordinary transition that countries go through when one system that seemed secure has diminished and another is being put in place . 
You are right , Mr Evans : if you look at all the Union policies in the broad sense , that is exactly the approach that the Union is adopting . 
It is adopting a holistic approach . 
In the Balkans , which you mentioned , there is a very specific Union policy , which is well-informed and well-focused . 
It gives people , particularly Member States and their governments , the prospect of closer union with the European Union and indicates very clearly that we have certain standards that they have to set . 
So on the one hand we are encouraging them and on the other hand we are discouraging certain actions . 
We are taking a holistic approach . 
I agree with Mr Evans . 
. -- I should like to thank Mr Sacrédeus for his comments . 
The points that he mentioned were touched on in my original response and fleshed out in the supplementaries . 
This is an issue that requires a very wide range of responses . 
I take issue with Mr Sacrédeus at only one stage : unfortunately , the women and the children who are the victims in this particular case are exploited from birth . 
They are exploited because of the conditions that exist in their states . 
They are also exploited by being exported like products to the rich West . 
It is something that all countries have to take responsibility for . 
I am proud of the work that the European Union is doing in this regard because it is a model for the rest of the world -- I have no point of disagreement with Mr Sacrédeus on that . 
. -- I should like to thank Mrs Morgantini . 
The Council is fully aware of the restrictions imposed by the Israeli authorities on entry to the occupied territories as described by Mrs Morgantini . 
In a recent joint report requested by the Council of the European Union , heads of mission in Tel Aviv , Jerusalem and Ramallah confirmed these restrictions , which have been progressively identified and which have a considerable impact on the freedom of movement of European Union citizens , representatives of churches , journalists , NGOs and even European Union officials and diplomatic staff . 
Their application on the ground often appears to be unclear and disproportionate . 
The European Union and its Member States closely coordinate their approaches to these issues . 
They raise the problems of access to the Palestinian territories in their regular dialogue with the Israeli government officials . 
Moreover , the European Union plays a leading role in the task force on project implementation established by the international community to deal with problems of access for development assistance workers . 
. -- The point I made earlier is that the Council and the European Union continue to monitor the situation in the region . 
We have continuously highlighted our concerns and I am not at all convinced that some form of reciprocal action would actually be helpful . 
The Israeli authorities know that we consider the actions they are taking to be regrettable . 
The European Union and both the political and official contacts in the region have been very clear . 
I am not certain , however , that reciprocation would be either helpful or fruitful . 
The Member can be absolutely assured that the Irish presidency has devoted a great deal of time and attention to this issue . 
We do not wish to do anything that would further inflame the situation in an already difficult part of the world . 
As you know , Minister Cowen has visited the region . 
The authorities there are fully aware of our concerns and they are fully aware of the concerns of the European Union . 
. -- I said in a previous reply that one must understand both sides in this difficult situation . 
I said that it would be foolhardy to suggest that circumstances do anything other than contribute to the situation . 
Mrs Morgantini 's specific question referred to the impact . 
I said in a previous reply that what we all aspire to in the Middle East is a situation where the Palestinian and Israeli peoples can live side by side in peace and respect each other 's cultural positions -- a situation where young Palestinian men and women do not aspire to becoming suicide bombers and where young Israeli women and men do not have to consider going into the army or the dangers of being blown up on their streets . 
The Council is , of course , fully aware not only of the history that lies behind the Israeli State , but also of the horrors that lie behind the type of suicide bombing seen there . 
Nothing I have said should be taken -- and I am sure this was not the Member 's intention -- as in any way detracting from the horrors of daily life in that region . 
. -- As Ms Ahern knows , any delegation of which she is a member would be met with an open door . 
She is quite right that this is a very serious issue . 
With regard to the wall , separation , barrier or fence -- whatever euphemism one would wish to use -- the Union has expressed its concern . 
It has particularly expressed its concern that the route envisaged for the wall has in a number of places departed significantly from the green line . 
At the end of the day we know that it is dialogue that works . 
When people get together and have a dialogue they can resolve their differences . 
. -- Article 314 of the EC Treaty and Regulation No 1/58 determine respectively the authentic language versions of the Treaty and the official languages and working languages of the EU institutions . 
Regulation No 1/58 is based on Article 290 of the EC Treaty which states : ` The rules governing the languages of the institutions of the Community shall , without prejudice to the provisions contained in the rules of procedure of the Court of Justice , be determined by the Council , acting unanimously . ' 
Historically , these provisions , which came under primary law as regards Article 2 and 4 of the Treaty and under secondary law as regards Regulation No 1/58 , have been adopted only on the occasion of accessions , by means of successive accession treaties . 
Thus , Article 61 of the Athens Accession Treaty provides for the translation into the new languages of the text of the original treaties and of the Treaties amending or supplementing them . 
These translations are annexed to the Act of Accession and are authentic under the same considerations as the original texts of the Treaties . 
In other words , after accession the Treaties will have to be interpreted on the basis of the text existing in twenty-one languages and not just in the four original languages . 
Regulation No 1/58 , as most recently amended by the Treaty of Athens , brings to twenty the number of official languages and working languages of the EU institutions . 
On the accession of Ireland to the Community , the original Treaties were translated into Irish . 
The Irish language version is an authentic version of these Treaties . 
Although Irish has not been added to the list of official languages and working languages of the institutions , each successive treaty is published in Irish as well as in the eleven other working languages . 
The texts in Irish are equally authentic and have equal status with those in all the other languages . 
I might add in my capacity as a Member of the Irish Parliament , and more precisely in my capacity as an Irish citizen , that the honourable Member will be aware that a public debate is taking place in Ireland as to whether or not the Irish language should be recognised as an official working and official language of the European Union . 
The Irish government has established a working group that is analysing the options available for further strengthening and enhancing the status of the Irish language within the European Union . 
That working group is examining a range of issues with a view to identifying additional opportunities in this regard . 
I thank the Member for the question . 
. -- -- thank you very much Brian . 
I agree wholeheartedly with the opening point . 
The extraordinary thing that has happened in the last 30 years has been the explosion of interest in a language that 30 years ago looked as if it was threatened . 
One of the arguments made 30 years ago was that minority languages would be crushed and in particular the Irish language would disappear in the European Union . 
Mr Crowley is absolutely correct when he says that one of the extraordinary features has been the explosion of interest in the education sector in the Irish language . 
The most rapidly growing part of education in Ireland is the Gaelscoileanna , the all-Irish schools at first and second level . 
He is correct in that . 
The Irish Government welcomes that . 
The language has been accorded a quite distinct status within the Union since Ireland joined in 1973 . 
The Treaty status of the language was agreed in 1973 and that right was re-established in the Treaties of Amsterdam and Nice . 
If my memory serves me correctly , Article 42 in the new Treaty makes a specific cross-reference to that . 
In short , they are practical measures that make a difference . 
Irish is the only language other than those specified in Council Regulation No 1 of 1958 to which these rights apply . 
Additionally , Lingua , the Union 's programme for the promotion of language teaching and learning recognises the Irish language for its purposes . 
As I pointed out in my answer , the government of Ireland has set up a working group to establish what further steps can be taken . 
It is not , as some people believe , simply a matter of knocking on the door , . 
Indeed , as someone who comes from the Gaeltacht part of Ireland , I -- like Mr Crowley -- take a passionate interest in it . 
. -- In answer , Dr Paisley , I am of course aware of the extraordinary and unique work that has been done on the Scotch-Irish language . 
The lesser-used languages -- whether we are talking about the language of Ulster or , for example , the Cornish language -- are a matter which has concerned the Union . 
However , support for the languages is not purely a matter for the Presidency-in-Office . 
In the case of the Irish language a specific and unique measure was made in 1973 . 
Maybe it should have been made for the other lesser-used languages that have been mentioned here . 
To answer Dr Paisley directly , I am aware of the blossoming of interest in a language which had one stage virtually disappeared . 
. -- I would ask the honourable Member not to trespass on my concerns about minority languages . 
As it turns out the part of Ireland in which I was born is very close to Cornwall . 
In fact , in parts of Wexford , where I was born , there was a minority language that borrowed very heavily on the Cornish language . 
The Union should have a concern and a generous policy for the lesser-used languages , because they are part of the extraordinary cultural diversity of the European Union . 
I do not want to say that the Irish language is in a special category . 
For me , it is in a special category , but legally it has a status that is rather different to some of the other lesser-used languages . 
However , I take the point that you made . 
Do not trespass on my concerns , because I have a concern on this and on the issue of the Scotch-Ulster language and the extraordinary revival of this language . 
Perhaps I have said more than I should as President-in-Office . 
. -- Mrs Ahern has raised a very serious question . 
The recent revelations about the secret network illicitly trading in highly sensitive nuclear equipment and technology organised by the former Pakistani chief scientist , Abul Qadeer Khan , are of very serious concern . 
During the recent European Union ministerial troika to Islamabad , these concerns were raised at the highest level with Pakistan and we were assured that new controls have been put in place in order to prevent proliferation . 
As far as the European Union is concerned , exports of sensitive equipment and technology are regulated by Council Regulation ( EC ) No 1334/2000 . 
With regard to the export of weapons-usable materials -- for example plutonium and highly enriched uranium -- from the European Union , this can only be authorised in accordance with the above-mentioned regulation , as well as other relevant international rules and practices governing such exports . 
Furthermore , all nuclear material within the European Union -- as long as it remains in the civilian nuclear fuel cycle -- is safeguarded by the nuclear inspection services of the Commission and , where the material is to be transferred outside the European Union , by the International Atomic Energy Agency . 
In the case of export to third countries , the IAEA will also apply safeguards to the third country and will , inter alia , verify the declaration on quantity and composition made before the shipment of any material . 
In the specific case of Pakistan , the issue raised by the Member , there is an additional consideration . 
Unlike all European Union Member States , Pakistan is not a party to the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and does not have a full-scope safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency . 
The principles and the objectives of nuclear non-proliferation and the disarmament agreed at the 1995 Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty Review Conference state that full-scope safeguards should be a necessary precondition for transfers of source and special fissionable material or specially designed material thereof . 
The nuclear suppliers group and the export control regime in which all EU Member States participate designates full-scope safeguards as a condition of supply for sensitive nuclear and related technology . 
It follows that no Member State should authorise the export of nuclear material in any form to Pakistan . 
The Council is committed to continuing to strengthen export control policies and practices in cooperation with our partners in various export control regimes and in other third countries . 
This is reflected in the EU strategy against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the last European Council meeting in December in Brussels . 
. -- I know full well the passionate concern of the Member on this particular issue . 
She is quite right when she says it was not named by accident : perhaps it was a happy accident that it was named after the God of the Underworld . 
The issue raised in the first part of the question is absolutely terrifying . 
Since that report became available , there have been further reports of people travelling with caesium in the boot of the car . 
The Community is engaged in the issue ; we have made the concerns of the Community known to the Pakistani authorities . 
I take the point Ms Ahern made in her supplementary about matters nearer to home , but it is not up to me to provide a definitive solution . 
Since September 11 we have a different view on security , and we should all be very conscious of the implications in this particular area . 
. Mr President , as we meet to discuss the situation throughout the Middle East today , tensions in the region are high -- and understandably so . 
The killing of the Hamas leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin and seven other Palestinians by Israeli forces last week has resulted in outrage across the region . 
The European Union condemned this extrajudicial killing as contrary to international law . 
In an already inflamed situation , it is vital that all sides exercise restraint and refrain from acts of violence which will only lead to more deaths and which will put a peaceful settlement further beyond reach . 
Against this backdrop , the Arab League Summit scheduled for this week in Tunis has been cancelled . 
Now , more than ever before , there is a need for the countries of the region to choose the path of peace and to turn away from the path of violence and recrimination . 
There is a need for governments to show leadership for peace , and to turn away from the politics of the last atrocity , which serve no one 's interest . 
Elsewhere in the region , in Iraq the security situation remains a cause of grave concern . 
It is disturbing that recent attacks have aimed at maximising civilian casualties and have been intended to promote sectarian violence . 
A secure , democratic and peaceful Iraq , within its present borders , can exert a positive influence for peace and stability across the entire region . 
The European Union looks forward to the transition to a representative Iraqi administration and is committed to working with the people of Iraq in securing a peaceful and stable future for that country . 
There is a pressing need for action to address the various problems and challenges to peace and prosperity throughout the Middle East . 
I believe that the European Union is ideally placed to make a contribution in support of this objective . 
Historically , the European Union has enjoyed a close relationship with the countries of the southern Mediterranean and the Middle East , built up through centuries of intertwined history , commerce and exchange . 
We are not strangers to each other . 
Indeed , through Euromed and the Barcelona Process , the Union has enjoyed a structured relationship with countries of the southern and eastern Mediterranean for ten years . 
The Barcelona framework is comprehensive in scope -- covering political , economic , social and security issues of mutual interest . 
It commits us to working towards a shared zone of peace , prosperity and progress . 
In the economic sphere we are working towards the establishment of a free trade zone with a market of 700 million people by 2010 . 
The possibilities offered by this vast market will lead to a growth in employment , prosperity and stability right across the partnership . 
The Union has also concluded Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreements with all but one of the Euromed countries , and I hope that the negotiations with the remaining country will be concluded soon so that the grid of arrangements can be completed . 
I would urge all partners to expedite ratification of these agreements , which are an important instrument in developing economic relationships between the European Union and the Mediterranean countries . 
An important element of our engagement has also been to promote democracy , good governance and the rule of law . 
This is in line with the conclusions drawn by the 2002 UNDP Arab Human Development Report . 
Significant funding has already been made available by the Commission in support of programmes which promote these objectives . 
The Union has also developed a framework of cooperation and dialogue with the countries of the Gulf through the Gulf Cooperation Council . 
At present we are working with our partners in the GCC to achieve a free trade agreement . 
Although negotiations have been long , and at times difficult , they are now moving in the right direction . 
In addition we are considering ways to develop relationships with Yemen and Libya , and reflecting on our relationship with Iran . 
It is clear that the Union already has a deep and close relationship with the countries of the Mediterranean and the Middle East . 
It is one based on partnership and dialogue , and on a willingness to work together to address the challenges facing the region . 
It is also a relationship that is based on the recognition of the strategic importance which each represents to the other . 
We are their neighbours just as they are our neighbours , and it is in our shared interest to see a zone of security , prosperity and progress develop across the wider region . 
In recognition of the importance of the region to Europe , the European Union is currently working to develop a Strategic Partnership with the Middle East and the Mediterranean following a mandate from the European Council in December 2003 . 
This is also a key objective of the European Security Strategy , again adopted in December 2003 . 
Security and stability is a shared interest of the countries of the region and of the European Union . 
Our primary objective is to promote the development , through partnership , of a common zone of peace , prosperity and progress across the Mediterranean and into the Middle East . 
The goal is to enjoy close and cooperative relations with all the countries of the region , responding as far as possible to initiatives from within the region itself . 
Resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict is a strategic priority . 
This is the context that informed the adoption of the interim report presented to last week 's General Affairs and External Relations Council and endorsed by the European Council . 
The interim report proposes an EU Strategic Partnership with the Mediterranean and the Middle East . 
It sets out a series of shared understandings held by the members of the Union with regard to relations with the region , proposes key principles and objectives which might inform our strategic partnership and proposes these together with work programmes for the Mediterranean and the Gulf as a means to implement our partnership . 
It is also essential that the impetus for reform comes from within . 
Equally , there can be no ` one-size-fits-all ' solution to the challenges facing the region . 
We are actively consulting with partners in the region who are our key interlocutors . 
This will be an essential element in preparing our final report for the European Council in June . 
In this spirit , the Taoiseach , Mr Ahern , in his capacity as President of the European Council , had planned to address the Arab League Summit in Tunis yesterday , as a further step in our intensified consultations with the region . 
But , as I have already noted , that meeting was cancelled . 
Foreign Minister Cowen is currently in the region , holding a series of meetings with key interlocutors . 
The presidency 's commitment to consultation and dialogue remains absolute . 
We will continue this process at the forthcoming Euro-Mediterranean Partnership Mid-Term Ministerial Meeting to be held in Dublin and at the Ministerial Meeting of the Gulf Cooperation Council . 
I have already commented on the need for progress in the Middle East Peace Process . 
There can be no long-term solution in the region without the resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict which has cost so many lives on all sides . 
Implementation of the Quartet Roadmap remains the basis for reaching a lasting comprehensive settlement resulting in two viable , sovereign and independent states , Israel and Palestine , living side by side in peace and security . 
As members of the Quartet , we will continue to work towards this end . 
Acts of violence by either side can not contribute to advancing the political process necessary to reach such a settlement , and such acts , therefore , must be rejected . 
The countries of the Mediterranean and the Middle East are facing a broad range of challenges politically , economically and socially . 
Equally , those countries possess enormous potential which , if fulfilled , would result in benefits for all the peoples of the region . 
Progress in all areas -- economics , commerce , education , democracy and civil society -- is essential if the conditions for lasting peace and stability across the region are to be achieved . 
The European Union is committed to working as good neighbours with the governments and peoples of the region towards this end , which is in all our shared interests . 
We all agree that the European Union needs to raise the level of its engagement within the region . 
I agree particularly with Members as to the importance of intensive consultation with the countries involved in the region . 
The drive and the initiative to address these challenges and to implement the necessary reforms must come from the region itself . 
It is easy to be in despair when you see , as we have seen , horror heaped on horror , misery on top of misery . 
However , the reality is that the Union must be involved in pushing forward where it can to try and create at least a space in which peace can be created . 
The Union must work in partnership with the region to this end , to help to meet all of these challenges . 
A lasting and comprehensive settlement is set out in the roadmap , and the roadmap is the only way forward . 
It was mentioned that the suspension of the Association Agreement is a way forward in the region . 
I think that discussion and pressure would produce some progress . 
In the interim report on the strategic partnership endorsed by the Council last week , the European Union has established a set of guiding principles for its engagement in the region . 
The presidency is committed to developing the strategic partnership on the basis of partnership and dialogue with all the countries in the region . 
Once again , I should like to thank Members for their thoughtful and incisive contributions . 
While the situation in Kosovo has stabilised since 18 March , it remains very tense . 
The KFOR international peacekeeping force has been strengthened significantly in response to the violence . 
I pay tribute to the efforts of all who worked hard to stabilise the situation and to restore calm in Kosovo . 
I would also like to offer my condolences and those of the Council to all who have once again suffered loss of life , injury and loss of loved ones . 
The General Affairs and External Relations Council , on 22 March , and the European Council , on 26 March , condemned the violence , loss of life , the damage to property and the destruction of religious and cultural heritage in Kosovo . 
The full commitment of the European Union to the development of a secure , democratic and multi-ethnic Kosovo , in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 has been reaffirmed once again . 
The European Union strongly supports the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General in Kosovo , Harri Holkeri , the United Nations mission in Kosovo and KFOR in their determined efforts to stabilise the situation and to ensure the full implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 . 
I would like to underscore the strong support of the European Union for the United Nations policy of Standards before Status . 
That policy , together with Security Council resolution 1244 , remains the foundation of the international community 's commitment to Kosovo . 
The European Union is considering how it can strengthen its role in support of the UN Standards before Status policy . 
The recent violent events have risked undermining the painstakingly achieved progress that has been made to date . 
It is important now that we assert the primacy of politics in Kosovo and ensure that there is no further descent into ethnic violence . 
The explosion of sectarianism would be to the detriment of all in Kosovo . 
It is clear that the future of the people of that country lies in the eventual integration of the countries of the Western Balkans into the European Union structures , as agreed at the EU-Western Balkans summit in June 2003 . 
The implementation of the UN Standards before Status policy is the key to achieving that goal . 
However , the issue of final status in Kosovo can only be addressed once sufficient progress has been made on the implementation and review of standards . 
Despite the recent violence and the continuing tensions , this will have to include the resumption of the process of dialogue on practical matters between Belgrade and Pristina . 
They took with them a clear message . 
Kosovo 's Provisional Institutions of Self-Government must demonstrate their commitment to a multi-ethnic Kosovo . 
Last week 's European Council called on them to take an immediate step in this direction by allocating resources for the urgent reconstruction of damaged property , including places of worship , to ensure that internally displaced persons can return safely to their homes . 
I welcome the allocation by the Provisional Institutions of EUR 5 million to assist with reconstruction , and the unanimous declaration of the Kosovo Assembly on 26 March to condemn the recent violence . 
Welcome as they are , words are not enough . 
It is time to see real efforts to reach across ethnic divisions so that a Kosovo in which all can live peaceably and in security is created . 
To this end , political leaders in Kosovo must now work more closely with the United Nations mission in Kosovo and with KFOR for the protection of the rights of all sections of the population , including members of minority communities . 
What has happened in Kosovo over the past few weeks is a reminder to us all of the importance of the role that the European Union plays , not just in Kosovo , but in the wider region . 
The European Union has taken the lead role in working with the countries of the Western Balkans to consolidate peace and stability in the region , and to promote economic development and the respect for human rights and the rule of law . 
European Union assistance in the region in support of those objectives will amount to EUR 4.65 billion over the period 2000-2006 . 
The Union , including its Member States , continues to be the most important source of funding for the international efforts in Kosovo . 
Moreover , European Union Member States make the largest troop contributions to KFOR . 
The development of ever closer relations with the Western Balkans is a priority for the European Union . 
Since last year 's Thessaloniki Summit , the European Union and the countries of the Western Balkans have a shared agenda for progress . 
The objective of eventual integration will be pursued through the Stabilisation and Association Process and through implementation of the series of agreements which brought an end to the tragic conflicts of the past 13 years . 
In the case of Kosovo , the Stabilisation and Association Process tracking mechanism initiated by the European Commission in the spring of 2003 is designed to facilitate Kosovo 's progress within the Stabilisation and Association Process , bringing Kosovo within the embrace of the European family . 
Our efforts to promote the European perspective of Kosovo and the United Nations policy of implementing standards are mutually reinforcing policies . 
Both sides of the relationship made commitments at Thessaloniki which must be implemented fully . 
Those responsible for the recent violence in Kosovo must be brought to justice . 
There should be no wall of silence , there should be no culture of impunity . 
It is time to move forward , away from the hurt and the anger which have blighted Kosovo 's politics for so long . 
The path to take has been mapped out by the United Nations , in its Standards before Status policy . 
I would like to repeat the Council 's support for Special Representative Holkeri , for his United Nations colleagues , and for KFOR , in their determination to stabilise the situation and to ensure the implementation of Security Council resolution 1244 in full . 
It is the responsibility of all , but particularly of Kosovo 's leaders , to support the work already in train to ensure a stable future for a secure , democratic , prosperous and multi-ethnic Kosovo , with its place in Europe . 
The European Union is ready to help in the achievement of this goal . 
It is up to the people in Kosovo now to take up the offers made . 
. Mr President , I would like to make a statement in relation to the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council to establish a new financial services committee organisational structure . 
In particular I wish to bring to the attention of the House the contents of a letter which was sent by the President-in-Office of Ecofin , Minister Charlie McCreevy TD , on 24 March to the Chair of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , Mrs Randzio-Plath . 
The contents of the letter are as follows : 
` Concerning the proposal for a directive to establish a new financial services committee organisational structure , presented by the Commission on 5 November 2003 , I would like to clarify a few points which have been raised during the contacts between the Council and the European Parliament . 
When in March 2001 the Stockholm European Council took the decision to apply the Lamfalussy approach in the securities sector , the following passage was included in the Presidency Conclusions : ` The European Council notes that , within the framework of the comitology decision of 28 June 1999 , the Commission has committed itself , in order to find a balanced solution for those cases of implementing measures in the field of securities markets acknowledged in the light of the discussions to be particularly sensitive , to avoid going against predominant views which might emerge within the Council as to the appropriateness of such measures . 
This commitment shall not constitute a precedent . ' 
` The Council , noting that this commitment on behalf of the Commission does not constitute a precedent , and taking into account the function of the Lamfalussy approach in the securities sector , will not ask the Commission to make a similar undertaking within the framework of the extension of the Lamfalussy approach to the banking and the insurance sectors . 
` Concerning the question of interinstitutional balance , you will recall the statement of the representatives of the governments of the Member States meeting within Council on 9 December 2002 , wherein they decided that they would draw the attention of their Heads of State and Government to the importance of a revision of Article 202 of the EC Treaty and invited them to consider this question in the preparation of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
We now have on the table of the Intergovernmental Conference a draft Constitutional Treaty which regulates the delegation to the Commission of the power to enact delegated regulations . 
The Treaty is not agreed yet , but I can affirm to you that the representatives of the governments of the Member States meeting within the Council favour the idea of a balanced legislative system in accordance with the principles set out in Part I , Article 35 , of the draft Treaty . ' 
. Mr President , at the outset I should say that as a past United Nations human rights fellow and indeed as a one-time chairman of the Irish Commission for Justice and Peace , I am particularly pleased to be here to speak on this report . 
I welcome the opportunity to participate in the debate on what is a fundamental report of critical importance to the Union . 
The report merits careful consideration . 
As the rapporteur said , if the European Union is prepared to demand high standards in the human rights area , it should also be prepared to scrutinise its own performance and deliver high standards . 
Given the wide range and nature of the report , it is not possible to address all the concerns raised , but I will endeavour to address some of the key issues . 
In recent weeks we have all been horrified by the tragic events in Madrid , and our deepest sympathies go to the victims , their families and all the people of Spain . 
As the Taoisech has already reported , a declaration on terrorism was adopted by the European Council and sets out a package of measures designed to enhance the capacity of the European Union to meet the threat of terrorism . 
We are also conscious of our obligations to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms when undertaking any counter-terrorism measures . 
There can be no compromise on these fundamental values ; there is no trade-off . 
The effective suppression of terrorism necessitates respect for due processes and for the rule of law . 
The Declaration commits us to combating terrorism in accordance with the fundamental principles on which the Union is founded . 
The European Council also agreed that negotiations on the new Constitution should be resumed . 
As the Members of this House will be aware , the Charter of Fundamental Rights , which was discussed extensively at the European Convention , and on which there was an overwhelming consensus , is an element to be incorporated in the new Constitutional Treaty -- something that we will all welcome . 
The Tampere European Council in 1999 agreed to work towards the creation of a common European Union asylum system on the basis of the full and inclusive application of the Geneva Convention . 
We welcome the progress made yesterday in the Justice and Home Affairs Council on the Asylum Qualifications Directive . 
Our priority is to finalise this and to reach agreement on the Procedures Directive as part of the completion of the first phase of the Common European Asylum system . 
Turning to another issue , trafficking in human beings is an appalling , exploitative and criminal practice . 
The Brussels Declaration on Preventing and Combating Trafficking in Human Beings , endorsed by the Council last May , provides the basis for a comprehensive five-year programme , which we are actively working towards . 
The Council has also agreed measures to give assistance to victims of trafficking through the provision of short-term residence permits to victims who cooperate with the competent authorities . 
In this context I recall the framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography , which was adopted last year and which is all part of the human rights defence spectrum . 
In relation to the issue of solidarity and social exclusion , Member States have adopted national action plans in the context of the Lisbon Agenda , outlining the actions to be taken to combat social exclusion . 
The second such plan was developed in all Member States last year , following a consultation process with social cohesion interest groups . 
The European Council agreed that a high level of social cohesion was central to the Lisbon Agenda and that strategies which make a decisive impact on social exclusion and on the eradication of poverty should be reinforced . 
It focused particularly on the key role that could be played by the modernisation of social protection systems . 
We see employment as the primary route out of poverty and out of social exclusion ; employment in well-paid jobs , enabling citizens to enjoy higher levels of prosperity throughout the Union . 
The European Council recognised that delivering more and better jobs was the most urgent issue to be addressed . 
It is essential to attract more people into the labour force . 
Achieving higher rates of labour force participation by women and older groups should assist in combating social exclusion and in averting the continuing higher risk of poverty experienced by these groups . 
It is also in the interest of the Community to do this in any event . 
Turning to equality issues which were addressed in the report , the overall effect of the three European Union equality directives is to require Member States to prohibit direct discrimination , indirect discrimination and harassment on the grounds of gender , racial or ethnic origin , religion or belief , disability , age or sexual orientation in relation to employment , self-employment or occupational and vocational training . 
Victimisation is also prohibited . 
It is important now that we move ahead to fully implement these vital protections for some of the more vulnerable groups in our society . 
Making progress on the draft directive on equality of access to the supply of goods and services has been identified as an important priority of the Irish presidency and has an impact in this area . 
The representatives of the Member States meeting within the European Council in Brussels on 13 December 2003 noted the importance of human rights data collection and analysis to assist in policy formation . 
They agreed to extend the mandate of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia to become a Human Rights Agency , and the Commission is preparing a proposal to give effect to the European Council decision . 
On free movement within the Union , I would like to record the adoption of the directive on long-term resident status for third country nationals . 
This opens the possibility to access long-term resident status after five years of legal residency and the recognition of equality of treatment in a series of aspects of social and economic life . 
Given some of the wilder statements in some of the media referred to by the rapporteur about issues relating to free movement , this is a very welcome development . 
On a personal note I would like to mention in particular that there is a reference in paragraph 155 to judicial delays . 
I have to say to the rapporteur that I was most impressed by the fact that an Irish case is cited there . 
It is a case in which I myself was involved and the delays there were , in my view , unforgivable . 
I have noted with interest the question of participation in European and local elections and the democratic deficit . 
As we approach the European elections , it is in all of our interests to encourage and to ensure the highest possible turnout of all eligible voters . 
Participation is at the very heart of democracy . 
Unfortunately , it is clear from public opinion surveys , poor voter turnout in European Union elections and media reporting that many Europeans feel disconnected from the European Union and consider that they are not sufficiently informed about the EU . 
For this reason the presidency has decided to convene a Ministerial Conference on Communicating Europe which takes place next week . 
The Conference will have two key objectives : to discuss how people might be better informed about the European Union and to assess how we might promote greater engagement by all Europeans in deciding how our Union develops and moves ahead . 
Once again I would like to thank you for the opportunity to participate in this debate and , on a personal level , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on what I regard as a very fine and an extremely significant report . 
. Mr President , the debate was very interesting . 
I concur with the view put forward by many that our Union is rooted in a shared commitment to freedom , human rights , democratic institutions and the rule of law . 
Our Union must be an exemplar in all of those areas , otherwise we are an exercise in hypocrisy . 
I mentioned that in the Tampere programme the Council reaffirmed the importance that the Union and the Member States attach to the absolute right to seek asylum , mentioned by several Members . 
It agreed to work towards the establishment of a common European asylum system . 
That is very important and absolutely correct . 
Mr Evans , for example , said that the system we establish must have clarity . 
He is absolutely correct in that regard . 
Given the debate that has been raging in a number of Member States , I want to touch upon the issue of migration , an issue raised by a number of Members . 
There is a disturbing rise in xenophobic comment , particularly in some parts of the popular media . 
Europe is open to migration . 
Indeed migration into Europe is both necessary and desirable , along with migration within Europe . 
The development of a common EU migration policy is therefore of particular importance . 
Both Mr Evans and Ms Kaufmann touched upon this . 
It is important that we have a clear-cut policy on legal migration in order to help put an end to some of the disturbing hysteria . 
The Irish presidency will continue to support an initiative by the Commission to combat trafficking in human beings , especially bearing in mind the work of the expert group in this area and the Brussels Declaration . 
Quite a number of speakers made reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the draft Constitutional Treaty . 
It strikes me that the Charter of Fundamental Rights elements in the draft Constitutional Treaty are one of the great pillars on which that Treaty is based . 
The Charter provides an additional safeguard for citizens of the Union in their dealings with the institutions of the Union or those of Member States when they apply Union law . 
I do not think it is correct to portray the Charter as a negative ; it is positive in every regard . 
The Earl of Stockton made the point that common sense and good manners are the best protection . 
Perhaps he would be right if we lived in an ideal world , but we do not . 
We live in a less than perfect world . 
My personal experience is that common sense and good manners have failed us on more than one occasion . 
Several Members made reference to the importance of a free press in the protection of civil liberties . 
A free press is fundamental to the protection of civil liberties . 
The same Members , however , mentioned concerns about excessive concentration . 
Concentration is a fact of life right across the European Union , and to the extent that it interferes with the free exercise of comment or dulls the capacity of a free press to act as a protector of all our liberties , such concentration is a cause for concern . 
I thank Members for the very interesting and stimulating debate . 
I also want to thank Members for the kind words they had to say about the Irish presidency . 
I can assure you that the presidency , in carrying forward the Council 's work , will give careful consideration to the points that have been made today . 
I congratulate the rapporteur on this report . 
We may not agree with every single word and every comment in the report , but it is incredibly important that we hold a mirror up to ourselves from time to time to see if we can meet our own high standards . 
This report certainly helps in that regard . 
. Mr President , this is an interesting debate , because we are discussing a report of the World Bank . 
The Extractive Industries Review launched by the World Bank Group in 2001 will guide the Bank 's involvement in the oil , gas and mining sectors . 
The consultative process is a significant element of the Group 's overall review of its activities in this area . 
It is important to note that the result of this initiative -- in the form of the comprehensive consultation report produced by the review team , led by Dr Salim -- is being examined by the World Bank , and its response to that review is awaited . 
So in a sense , we are discussing something that is a work in progress . 
The process must be allowed to take its course in view of the significant recommendations in the review . 
The importance of protecting and managing the resource base of economic and social development was reaffirmed by Heads of State and Government at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg in September 2002 . 
Raw materials , such as minerals and petroleum , provide the foundations for economic growth and well-being , both in industry and in our everyday lives . 
While mineral extraction makes a substantial contribution to economic development , the benefits must be balanced by measures to foster the environmental and social pillars of sustainable development through good governance . 
This is the area most Members will probably be concerned about , because good governance has not always been present . 
In recognition of the need to balance these demands , actions were agreed in relation to managing the natural resource base in a sustainable and integrated manner . 
The World Bank is not alone in recognising the need to address all elements of sustainable development . 
In many ways this review parallels work carried out by the European Union in recent years , such as strengthening the governance of mining through , for example , amendment of the Seveso Directive and a proposed new directive on the management of extractive industry waste -- an issue that is of concern right across the Union . 
The European Union is also taking forward policy on sustainable development through initiatives such as the planned Thematic Strategy on Sustainable Use of Natural Resources . 
At its meeting on 2 March , the Council of Environment Ministers gave broad policy orientations in relation to the future development of the Thematic Strategy . 
I note also that the World Bank has endorsed the Transparency Initiative launched at the Johannesburg Summit . 
This is a particularly important initiative . 
This , again , is a complex issue and there is a need for greater clarity on how taxes and royalties for such operations are distributed . 
I should also say that there is probably a need to consider whether they are properly or appropriately distributed -- but that is for another time . 
Detailed environmental protection measures in the Extractive Industries Review include proposals such as closure planning and guidelines on tailings management in extractive industries . 
In many ways these reflect concerns that we are also addressing . 
The European Union guidance note on best available techniques for mining wastes is very advanced and will set out best practice in this area . 
Many local factors , such as climatic conditions , determine the most appropriate ways to mitigate potential adverse impacts . 
Nevertheless , our work in Europe will make a useful contribution to better environmental practice and standards in managing mining waste , as well as the Cyanide Code of Practice developed by the UNEP through multi-stakeholder consultation and participation . 
We support the conclusions of the Johannesburg Summit and the Plan of Implementation , including the specific commitments in relation to the mining , minerals , metals and energy sectors . 
We also support the promotion of corporate responsibility and accountability , and the exchange of best practices in the context of sustainable development . 
Our position on these issues is clear and , I expect , well known to all interests , including the World Bank . 
Nonetheless , our interests and concerns in those areas are worth underlining and restating . 
As parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and ratifiers of the Kyoto Protocol , the European Community and its Member States are eager to ensure that the activities of the World Bank are in harmony with the European Union 's objective of stabilising greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere at safe levels . 
According to the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , global emissions of greenhouse gases will need to be drastically cut over the rest of this century if this goal is to be achieved . 
The recommendations of the Extractive Industries Review in this regard are consistent with a recognised need to move to less carbon-intensive sources of energy . 
The promotion of cleaner and less greenhouse-gas-emitting energy sources in developing countries , with a particular focus on the promotion of renewable sources of energy , are in keeping with meeting the objectives of the EU 's long-term climate change objectives . 
We welcome the wide-ranging and transparent nature of the consultation involved in this process and appreciate that the work now under way by the Bank is well informed by Dr Salim 's report . 
The European Union 's progressive approach to sustainable development is well known , and we also anticipate a response from the World Bank that will be consistent with its overall mission , in particular in poverty reduction and the promotion of sustainable development . 
. Mr President , it was a short but very interesting debate . 
I would like to say at the outset that I did not mean to disappoint Mrs Frassoni , but I did make in my own contribution a number of points relating to measures that have been taken . 
However , I accept the point she made regarding the World Bank not being something from which we are disconnected as absolutely valid . 
Of course this is true , and as regards good governance , the World Bank has a responsibility to ensure that . 
We know from the cases cited here what is happening . 
We know of the environmental degradation suffered particularly by powerless indigenous peoples . 
In fact it is quite correct . 
These matters should be of concern to the World Bank and to the international community . 
Mr van den Berg rightly spoke of the need to balance development on the one hand with the rights of indigenous peoples and , equally important , the need to ensure that monies from exploitive and extractive industries are dedicated to the service of the peoples of the region , a point touched on also by Mr Rod . 
I take that point as relating specifically to Mrs Frassoni 's point . 
The Council expects that all Member States will defend these common views in all international fora , including the World Bank . 
If I disappointed you in my earlier contribution , I hope I have made up for it now ! 
. Sorry , Mr President , I was a little distracted -- Mrs Frassoni was flirting with me there . 
It just goes to show that on occasions the European Parliament can be a much more pleasant place to be than Dáil Éireann ; I have not had that experience before ! 
We now turn from humour to something quite horrific -- the modern equivalent of Burke and Hare , namely the trafficking in human organs . 
It also has serious implications for the combating of organised crime , because as in everything else , organised crime has managed to get into this particular area . 
We know of the involvement of criminal gangs in this quite extraordinary activity . 
It is also an issue of concern to the Council and it is important that in addressing this we do so properly and are clear on the scope of the problem . 
A proposal for a Council Framework Decision on the prevention and control of trafficking in human organs and tissues was presented by the Greek presidency in February 2003 , in the framework of the Justice and Home Affairs Council . 
The aim of the proposal is to contribute to combating trafficking in human organs and tissues as a form of organised crime . 
The draft Framework Decision contains proposals to require Member States to ensure that the removal of an organ from a donor using force , threats or fraud , or the removal of an organ from a donor who has consented because of payment , become criminal offences . 
The proposition in the framework document will be quite wide . 
The proposal has been discussed on a number of occasions by relevant Council bodies . 
Several Member States questioned the need for an instrument at this time . 
It has also transpired that Member States have no precise information on the scale of the problem , within the European Union or involving it as a destination . 
In this regard , the findings of the Falcone project , which includes a 13 Member State study of the matter , will be of interest . 
The Irish presidency will continue to monitor Member States ' views on the usefulness of a measure such as this at the level of the EU with a view to establishing whether progress might be made in respect of such a measure . 
There is a need to ensure high standards of quality and safety . 
The Commission has indicated that it will conduct a thorough scientific evaluation regarding the situation of organ transplantation . 
I can summarise by saying that at this stage we are very much at the beginning of a process which may well take a long time to reach any form of finality . 
But the fact that we are debating it is an indication that there is an awareness and a concern about the issue . 
I referred to the point that was made in an excellent contribution in the documents that there is still a lot of information needed in this area . 
It is an astonishing debate . 
Commissioner Vitorino rightly cited a concern about this particular trade that would exist in any civilised community . 
He outlined in considerable detail the efforts that have been made . 
I was very impressed by Mr Coelho , who demonstrated the need for the Union to act in a coherent way to address a policy . 
Mr Lage and Mr Calò made similar points . 
I agree with the point made by Mr Ribeiro e Castro , when he suggested that we should not allow ourselves to demur on action because of any misplaced concerns . 
There are reasons why it did not progress any further . 
I am not quite certain that any Member States put ` spanners in the works ' . 
If they did , I am sure they may have done so because they felt that there were good and cogent reasons for doing so . 
Nonetheless , with the exception of that final fractious point , this was a good debate . 
. Mr President , I wish to thank Mr Wynn and his committee for their work . 
I welcome the opportunity today to participate in this debate on the future financial perspective , and I note the points made by Mr Wynn . 
The report and the work undertaken by Parliament constitute an important contribution to the process of working towards the agreement on future financing for the period from 2006 onwards . 
The nature of the agreement on the next funding round will have a critical impact on how the Union equips itself to tackle forthcoming challenges , including those most relevant to the quality of life and economic prospects of our citizens . 
Each of the Union 's institutions has a responsibility to ensure that we achieve a balanced and fair outcome that supports our policy goals in a financially efficient and financially effective manner . 
As we are aware , there are no easy answers to the challenge that the negotiations on future financing will have to address . 
We must address the need to boost growth throughout the Union so as to capitalise on the economic recovery that is now evident . 
We need to target resources effectively so that we build a growth-enhancing infrastructure throughout the Union that contributes to the improvement of transport links , with investment in communications and new technologies . 
Similarly , the provision of support for human capital -- in particular in terms of education and training -- has the potential to complement our investment in infrastructure . 
Upgrading the skills of Europe 's workforce will contribute significantly to improved productivity . 
Equally , support for innovation will provide added value in the demanding global marketplace , thus enhancing the competitiveness of the Union and its output . 
The policy of solidarity is critical to the success of our Union . 
The European Union must consider how best to support those regions of the new Member States that will lag behind the Union 's average in terms of development and access to growth opportunities , including access to employment opportunities . 
Equally , certain regions of existing Member States are still engaged in the convergence process , and the Union will need to consider what continued assistance is appropriate to support our shared objective of enabling all regions to converge on the EU average level of prosperity . 
Similarly , our debate on future financing will have to address the differing needs of urban and rural populations and regions and consider how best to create a balanced outcome that will promote greater prosperity for a wider range of Europe 's citizens . 
Our debate on future financing must also consider how we can enhance the priority which we attach to promoting the principle of sustainability in respect of future growth and development . 
Equally , we all recognise the importance of providing appropriate resources for increased Union actions in the areas of freedom , security and justice and in support of the Union 's external relations role . 
In short , the challenges facing us as we look at the future financial perspective are very significant indeed . 
As Parliament is aware , we are still at the very early phase of our deliberations on the future financial perspective . 
The Irish presidency 's approach is to build a solid foundation for the detailed work that will need to be undertaken under succeeding presidencies to achieve agreement on the level and on the focus of future financing . 
Its related objective is to provide Member States with the opportunity to consider the Commission communication as a whole and to outline their initial response . 
This process is intended to enable us to identify areas of agreement and also areas of potential divergence . 
Parliament will have seen the European Council conclusions welcoming the work of the Commission on this issue and endorsing the presidency 's approach to handling it . 
In line with these conclusions and analytical exercises currently under way in the Council to examine each of the areas addressed in the Commission communication , this work will form the basis for the report which will be prepared for the June European Council , outlining the outcome of the deliberations thus far . 
The Wynn report is therefore an important contribution to work on an issue in which each of the Union 's institutions will be involved . 
I welcome the constructive manner in which the European Parliament , as usual , has approached the issue of future financing . 
While there may be differing viewpoints on specific aspects of the issue , I am pleased to see that there are many areas of shared analysis and a common recognition of the importance of focusing on issues such as sustainable development , growth , freedom , security and justice , and the Union 's external role . 
We have much work to do , as I have already said . 
That will determine how the Union acquits itself to meet the challenges ahead . 
Obviously , there will be points on which we will differ as the negotiations proceed -- that is the very nature of politics and political dialogue . 
However , I am confident that our shared commitment to achieving a fair and balanced outcome to negotiations will help us to work towards a final package that will promote effective use of resources in support of greater prosperity for all the Union 's citizens in the years ahead . 
. Mr President , I am sure all Members , as well as the President , will be aware of the significance of this debate . 
I am very grateful for the opportunity to contribute to this debate on behalf of the Council and the presidency . 
Our discussion this morning comes just three days before a truly significant date for the people of the island of Cyprus . 
On 24 April they will vote in separate but simultaneous referenda on the text of the comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem which has been presented recently by United Nations Secretary-General , Kofi Annan , in an agreed negotiating framework . 
The European Union is deeply grateful to the Secretary-General , and in particular to his Special Adviser , Mr Alvaro de Soto , for their tireless efforts to bring about a settlement . 
They have worked closely with the parties and in collaboration with the governments of Greece and Turkey . 
They have created a unique and historic opportunity for a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem . 
If the people of Cyprus vote ` Yes ' in the two referenda on Saturday , a united Cyprus will join the European Union on 1 May , along with nine other new Member States . 
The accession of a united Cyprus remains the strong preference -- I emphasise the strong preference -- of the European Union . 
Let me recall today the commitment , made by successive European Councils , that the Union is ready to accommodate the terms of the settlement in line with the principles on which our European Union is founded . 
The origins of the European Union are in the most terrible war in human history , which almost destroyed our continent . 
The Union was born of a deep desire to encourage European nations to work together for the betterment of all their peoples and to resolve their differences peacefully , without resort to conflict . 
Membership of the European Union has enabled nations and divided communities in Europe to bridge deep and bitter divisions between them . 
I am confident that , over time , this will be the case also for a united Cyprus within the European Union . 
The accession of ten new Member States in just nine days ' time will formally end the tragic post-war divisions of the continent of Europe . 
There is now an opportunity to end yet another division in Europe . 
The decision on the Settlement Plan , presented by Secretary-General Annan , now rests ultimately with the people of Cyprus . 
The choice and the decision is theirs . 
They should be assured of the solidarity of the European Union as they contemplate , individually and collectively , a decision which will have a profound effect on their future and indeed on the future of their children and their children 's children . 
As the people of Cyprus exercise their democratic rights , they will be fully aware of the historic nature of this decision and of the opportunities at hand for Cyprus , for its neighbours and , indeed , for the rest of Europe . 
They will have heard -- as we have done -- the words of Secretary-General Annan , that the plan ` is the only available and the only foreseeable route to the reunification of Cyprus ' . 
The European Union and the wider international community stand ready to assist in the implementation of that settlement , both politically and economically . 
The commitment and the hope of the international community was evident at the high-level preparatory donors conference chaired by Commissioner Verheugen last week in Brussels . 
I was at that conference and successive speakers expressed their readiness , their wishes , their hopes and their desire to provide financial assistance for the implementation of this plan . 
A number of very significant and definite commitments have been made . 
Should the plan be approved , the European Commission has already earmarked significant funds for the economic development of Cyprus and for the betterment of the people of Cyprus . 
Many Member States , including Ireland , have stated that they will announce significant and specific funding in support of the implementation of the settlement at a full donors conference which we hope will take place in the autumn . 
The results of last week 's international conference have been welcomed in a significant statement issued by the President of the UN Security Council on 16 April . 
In noting that it is now for the Cypriots to take a historic decision concerning their future , the members of the Security Council gave the commitment that , should the plan be approved , they stand ready to take further actions as provided for in the plan , including the establishment of a new UN operation in support of its swift and full implementation by all parties . 
The members of the Security Council would also be committed to helping ensure that the parties fully meet their commitments under the settlement . 
The United Nations has been deeply involved with Cyprus for the past forty years . 
The UN Force in Cyprus was established in 1964 and is one of the longest running peacekeeping operations in the history of the UN . 
Member States , including my own country , have been proud to contribute military , police and civilian personnel to the force in the interests of all the people of Cyprus . 
The European Union has stayed the course with Cyprus . 
Now , on 24 April , the people of Cyprus will make their democratic choice -- and it is their choice -- on the settlement proposals before them . 
They have a unique and historic opportunity . 
The choice is theirs , and it is theirs alone . 
We wish the people of Cyprus well in making those choices . 
It is a difficult time . 
We understand that . 
We understand the history . 
We understand all the passion that goes into this , but the choice is theirs and theirs alone . 
We will respect whatever choice they make and hope that the decision is one that will allow for the peaceful integration of a united Cyprus into our Union on 1 May . 
. Mr President , I wish to thank the honourable Members for their contributions . 
Mr President , you and I both come from a divided island and we understand something of the passion that a debate of this nature will engender on the island of Cyprus . 
We also understand that conflict which is rooted in history and ingrained for generations is not easy to resolve . 
However , we also understand , as practical political people , that every now and again -- perhaps once in a generation , or even more rarely than that -- an opportunity comes to really change things . 
The agreement produced by Kofi Annan offers such an opportunity . 
As I said earlier , this is a decision for the people of Cyprus -- both North and South . 
It is their decision , their decision alone and we will respect that decision . 
In short , I can only repeat what the President-in-Office of the Council , the Taoiseach , Mr Ahern , said last night . 
I should first point out that we need to weigh our words very carefully , as we can all understand the hurt and concerns involved and need to be very careful that nothing is said or done in the next 72 hours to make a grim situation worse . 
Last night Mr Ahern summarised the position of the European Council as follows : ` These are crucial days for Cyprus and for its people . 
On Saturday the people of the island -- North and South -- will vote in referenda on the plan for a settlement presented by the United Nations Secretary-General . 
Through their patient and determined efforts in cooperation with the parties , the Secretary-General and his hard-working team have created a unique and historic opportunity for a settlement of the Cyprus problem . 
In his report to the United Nations Security Council , which was released yesterday , Kofi Annan stated clearly that the plan is the only available , the only foreseeable route for the reunification of Cyprus . 
The decision now rests with the people of Cyprus and is for them alone , freely exercising their democratic rights . 
The people of Cyprus know that the strong preference of the European Council is for the accession of a united Cyprus to the Union on 1 May . 
The European Union is ready to accommodate the terms of the settlement in line with the principles on which this Union is founded . 
As President of the European Council over the past few months I have had discussions on Cyprus with political leaders across Europe . ' 
And this is the important point , Mr President : ` It is only right to say that the view of the overwhelming majority is that the proposed settlement would be good for both communities in Cyprus and good for the European Union ' . 
Those are the views of the President-in-Office of the European Council and of the vast majority of the democratically elected leaders of the Member States of the European Union . 
I said at the outset that we need to weigh our words carefully . 
We do not want to cause any difficulties or be seen to be intruding in decisions that are ultimately decisions for the people of Cyprus . 
We wish the people of Cyprus well in the remaining hours before they make their decision and hope that it will be the decision that best serves the people of the island of Cyprus as a whole -- both North and South . 
He would see representatives of 25 countries and 450 million people sitting side-by-side , striving together for the common welfare of the people of Europe . 
He would see a Parliament in which parties operate on a cross-national and sometimes pan-European basis , where representatives from across our continent find as much common cause with colleagues from other countries as they do with their own compatriots . 
If Monnet were to look beyond this Parliament today , he would see countries which for centuries had been bitter enemies working hand-in-hand as convinced partners . 
He would have reason to rejoice . 
Like Monnet , Spinelli was a man of vision . 
Monnet hoped to make war between the nations of Europe not just unthinkable but materially impossible . 
Today we can see that the dream is closer than ever to becoming a reality . 
John Hume , the Nobel Laureate and Member of this House , once said : ` Our European Union has become the most successful peace process in Europe 's long history ' . 
The two men -- Monnet and Spinelli -- were different in many ways . 
Monnet tended to work quietly behind the scenes , using his legendary international networking skills to build the widest case for a new Europe . 
Monnet laid the foundations for this enterprise . 
Spinelli , on the other hand , was a much more public figure , a vigorous opponent of fascism in the first half of the last century ; in his later days an elected Member of this Parliament . 
They shared , however , a vital similarity : they were men of action , determined to harness their vision of a democratic , peaceful and prosperous Europe to the means of advancing it in the real world . 
What was it about these men that has allowed the ideas they promoted many decades ago to create the impetus which , even after their deaths , propels all of us forward to continue their work ? 
Perhaps Monnet 's biographer , François Duchêne , described his subject best when he wrote that Monnet 's secret ` came from a combination of creative and critical faculties . 
He appealed to the romantic in people through the idealism of his goals , and to the expert in them through the realism of his means . ' 
Making a new , peaceful Europe was Monnet 's greatest dream . 
Twenty-five years after his death we continue to build on the foundations he laid . 
Spinelli , like Monnet , believed that , without radical positive change , Europe would be condemned to repeat its past fatal errors and endanger its future existence . 
The European Union has risen to this challenge . 
What drove both men was their experience and their abhorrence of war . 
However , as they sought to communicate ideas and goals that would help rescue Europe from itself they could hardly have thought that from the rubble of the Second World War such a strong , united Europe would come about . 
Sixty years ago Europe was struggling with the last phase of the most destructive war in its history . 
Against this background the European Union , in spite of its imperfections , is a heroic endeavour undertaken against great odds . 
It has a record of assisting peace and prosperity among European nations and beyond , when history seemed to insist that such a goal amounted to little more than a flight of fancy . 
Last Saturday we witnessed an extraordinary reversal of history with the formal ending of the artificial divisions of Europe . 
The enlargement of the European Union to 25 Member States is a tribute to the potency of a dream . 
It is also a tribute to the endurance and courage of many millions in central and eastern Europe who often suffered for dreaming those dreams aloud . 
The Budapest uprising of 1956 , the Prague Spring of 1968 and the Baltic singing revolutions of 1990 have contributed to the construction of a Europe at the outset of the 21st century that few Europeans would have dreamed of throughout the previous 2000 years of our troubled history . 
The French writer Victor Hugo said in 1849 that a day would come when ` all you nations of the continent , without losing your distinct qualities and glorious individuality , will merge into a higher unity and found the European brotherhood ' . 
That day is upon us . 
Now is not the time for complacency to find a home in the new Europe . 
We can not simply stand back and admire our handiwork . 
Now is the time for new ambitions . 
Mr President , as you said , one of those ambitions must be the Constitutional Treaty and its very early completion . 
We must be careful to protect the freedom , justice , human rights , and political pluralism that that are the bedrocks of our Union . 
We must continue to build on the peace that Monnet saw replacing the deadly rivalries of his generation and their ancestors . 
We must also ensure that the new needs and circumstances of the Union are reflected in its basic law . 
On the 20th anniversary of the adoption by Parliament of Spinelli 's draft Constitutional Treaty we must work to agree a new Treaty that will improve the basis for democratic discourse in our Union , that will build on the success of our Union , and that will make the Union more readily understood and effective . 
The first major task we face together in the new Union will be to agree the new Constitutional Treaty . 
In March we decided to reach agreement at the latest by the June European Council meeting -- just six weeks away . 
Early agreement on a new Treaty that allows the Union to develop and prosper is the best way to commemorate the work of Jean Monnet and to mark the 20th anniversary of this Parliament 's draft Constitution which was presented by Spinelli . 
Even as we meet here today , representatives from the 25 Member States meet in Dublin to hammer out details in relation to the Treaty . 
We wish them well in that work . 
The whole of Europe is looking to them to fulfil the dream of Spinelli and Monnet . 
I am very pleased to be invited to speak to you today in this general debate on the future of the enlarged European Union -- Towards a European Constitution . 
As a member of the European Convention , I am very conscious of the hard work and the deep commitment of the representatives of the European Parliament to the Convention process . 
While we may not have been entirely in agreement on each and every issue , I valued our shared commitment to producing a Constitutional Treaty that will serve this Union well and that will commend itself to the citizens of Europe . 
While negotiations on the draft Treaty are yet to be concluded , we can take some satisfaction from what has been achieved . 
I should like to underline that at this point in our discussions we have moved much further , in a much more positive way , than anyone would have believed possible in the dark days of December and the early days of January . 
The draft that came out of the Convention provided the Intergovernmental Conference with a truly excellent framework on which to build a Constitutional Treaty that will stand the test of time . 
The draft is presented in language which is more accessible than any previous Treaty . 
The draft makes it clear who does what in the Union . 
It elaborates the doctrine of subsidiarity , it clarifies the scope of the European Union 's powers , it enhances democratic accountability and simplifies the range of legal instruments through which the Union acts . 
It seeks to provide the Union of 25 and more Member States with institutions that are workable and capable of meeting the needs of our citizens and of our Union into the future . 
It enshrines for the first time a Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Union 's constitutional order . 
It equips our Union to act with greater cohesion internally and to project and promote our shared values on the world stage , the very values of which Mr Hume spoke so movingly a few moments ago . 
This is a formidable document that should commend itself to the people of Europe . 
When I listen to critics and sceptics I am at a loss to understand what they are talking about . 
As I said on the BBC last weekend , I earnestly hope that the critics and sceptics -- including those in this House -- will take just a little time to consider this draft document and what it contains , and to take on board its very many merits . 
I want to express my thanks to Parliament for its strong support of our efforts to conclude the IGC under the Irish presidency . 
I can reassure you , Mr President , and the Members of this Parliament again today that we are doing everything in our power to bring negotiations to a successful conclusion . 
The very positive reaction to the Taoiseach 's report to the Spring Council and the confirmation that the political will existed to reach agreement by the June European Council is a very encouraging sign of the commitment of partners to finding a final agreement . 
While we must not underestimate the challenge that lies ahead , we can say with some confidence that we are closer to agreement than we have ever been . 
We are seeking to make as much progress as possible during May , so as to leave only a very small number of issues for final decision by the Heads of State or Government at the June European Council . 
In this context , the Taoiseach called on partners take a ` positive and focused approach ' to the negotiations and to avoid bringing issues not previously identified to the negotiating table . 
In response to President Cox 's point earlier , foreign ministers will meet for detailed discussions on 17 and 18 May . 
It is our ambition and intention to resolve as many outstanding issues as possible at that meeting . 
At the last meeting of the General Affairs Council , Minister Cowen made it clear that if , in his view , further work is required , the foreign ministers will meet on 24 May and if necessary again after that . 
We will also continue to meet partners bilaterally , at both political and official level . 
The Taoiseach in particular will be using his pre-European Council tour of capitals , which started this week , to tease out Member States ' concerns , to assuage those concerns , to answer any outstanding fears and to bring matters to resolution . 
I do not propose to go into too much detail on the outstanding issues . 
You are all aware of them : the definition and scope of QMV , the composition of the Commission , and a number of other issues of varying degrees of complexity and sensitivity . 
However , irrespective of how complex the issues are or how sensitive they are , if there is a political will , a way will be found to resolve those conflicts and sensitive issues . 
It should be possible to reach an outcome which meets the concerns of all , perhaps through some adjustment of the population and the Member State thresholds . 
As regards the scope of QMV , there is a general desire , shared I know by Parliament , for its extension with a view to promoting efficient decision-making in a larger Union . 
At the same time , there is also a need to take account of the particular concerns of Member States . 
I believe that a satisfactory overall outcome , which will involve a further growth in the number of areas subject to QMV and to codecision , will be found . 
We all agree that the Commission must be effective . 
We also fully appreciate the concerns of Member States regarding the composition of the Commission . 
Mr Hume spoke about the institutional framework and its extraordinarily subtle formula . 
I feel that the two perspectives -- the concerns about an efficient Commission and the concerns about the composition of the Commission -- could possibly be reconciled through maintaining , for an extended period , a Commission comprising one national from each Member State , moving thereafter to a reduced size on the basis of strict equal rotation . 
I know that a great many of you hope that it will be possible to conclude the Constitutional Treaty before the European Parliament elections , and indeed , privately , that would be my hope and desire too . 
As presidency , we would like to be in a position to do so , but at this stage it is more realistic to suggest that the final negotiations will conclude in the June European Council . 
We should recognise that the vast bulk of the Convention 's work has remained unchanged and will not be changed . 
We should remember that we have agreed a clear set of values and principles to which we can all subscribe and which go to the very heart of what the European Union is and what the European Union is hoping to achieve . 
These are not in question in the Intergovernmental Conference . 
It is worth reiterating what we have achieved : we have made tremendous progress in simplifying decision-making , in making clear who is responsible for taking decisions , in making clear to citizens that these decisions will be taken at the appropriate level . 
We have further enhanced the role of the European Parliament and strengthened , as a result , the democratic scrutiny of the Union . 
These principles are not in question in the IGC . 
We should also remember the very substantial progress on the outstanding non-institutional issues made by the Italian presidency , to which I pay tribute . 
The proposals which we have tabled for discussion at today 's focal point meeting owe a great deal to the work of this presidency 's predecessors . 
This new Constitution will be good for the European Union , it will be good for the Member States , and , most importantly of all , it will be good for the citizens of Europe . 
Of that I am absolutely convinced . 
As presidency , we are committed to doing everything in our power to ensure a successful outcome to the negotiations . 
Following on from the momentous achievement of the enlargement which has just taken place , the successful conclusion of negotiations on the Constitutional Treaty is the next logical step in our Union 's advancement . 
. Mr President , I welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate on Cyprus on behalf of the Council . 
Three days ago , on 1 May , a new chapter was written in the history of Europe . 
The Republic of Cyprus has taken its place as a full Member State of the European Union . 
It is no secret that the clear preference of the European Union was for the accession of a united Cyprus on 1 May . 
We greatly regret that following the outcome of the referenda in Cyprus on 24 April , it was not possible to achieve this objective . 
I would like today to echo the strong words from the meeting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council in Luxembourg on 26 April . 
The Council indicated its determination to ensure that the people of Cyprus will soon achieve their shared destiny as citizens of a united Cyprus in the European Union . 
We accept , however , that the people of Cyprus have made a democratic choice . 
On 24 April , the people of both parts of Cyprus voted in separate referenda on the settlement plan presented by the United Nations Secretary-General . 
The referenda were the culmination of a long and detailed negotiating process led by the United Nations . 
It is important today , therefore , that I again emphasise in the European Parliament the deep gratitude that the European Union has for the determined and sustained efforts in the search for a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem by Secretary-General Annan , by his Special Adviser , Mr Alvaro de Soto , and by their colleagues . 
They worked closely , and tirelessly , with the parties for a long period . 
We also recognise the very positive contributions made by the governments of Greece and Turkey . 
The Turkish Cypriot community has now expressed its clear desire for a future within the European Union . 
The Council is determined to end the isolation of the Turkish Cypriots and to facilitate the reunification of the island by encouraging economic development . 
Last week , the Council took an important step with the adoption on 29 April of the regulation on a regime under Article 2 of Protocol 10 of the Act of Accession . 
The terms of the regulation will facilitate trade and other links across the line while ensuring that the appropriate standards of protection are maintained . 
I believe that the agreement reached on this regulation reflects clearly the desire of the Council to send a signal of encouragement to the members of the Turkish Cypriot community that its future lies within a united Cyprus and within the European Union . 
The next step will be the presentation by the Commission of the comprehensive proposal requested by the General Affairs and External Relations Council . 
That will have a particular emphasis on the economic integration of the island and on improving contact between the two communities within the European Union . 
The Council has recommended that the EUR 259 million that had been earmarked for the northern part of Cyprus in the event of a settlement should now be used for this purpose . 
I welcome the intention of the Commission to bring forward its comprehensive proposals within the coming weeks . 
There is a strong sympathy and a sense of respect in this Parliament for the people of Cyprus , of both communities , as they seek to overcome the legacy of a divided history . 
I have said here on more than one occasion that coming as I do from a divided island we understand very fully how difficult it is to heal the rifts . 
However , those who did come were very welcome . 
The statements and actions by the Council since the referenda clearly confirm that the European Union remains strongly committed to providing tangible assurance to the Turkish Cypriot community that its future will be in a united Cyprus within the European Union . 
On a personal note , I shall unfortunately have to leave before this debate ends . 
This is likely to be the last occasion on which I address this Parliament . 
I want to thank very sincerely all the Members of this Parliament for the extraordinary courtesy and for the forbearance they have shown me during many debates in this Chamber . 
I have seldom enjoyed an experience more than I have enjoyed addressing this Parliament . 
I am not sure whether that enjoyment was reciprocated , but nonetheless , from my point of view my duties here were very pleasant and they were made all the more pleasant by the fact that I was able to make new friends and renew old acquaintances . 
In recent days this Parliament has come in for some of the most uncalled for and scurrilous criticism , criticism which it does not deserve . 
This Parliament serves the people of Europe well . 
It is a model of parliamentary performance . 
It gets through its work in an efficient and effective way . 
Undoubtedly it is not entirely made up of saints , but then very few human institutions are absolutely perfect . 
However , insofar as a parliamentary assembly is concerned , this comes as close to perfection as any assembly that I have ever addressed . 
It has been my pleasure to work with the Members of this Parliament . 
I wish those who are going into retirement all the very best for their retirement . 
I hope that they enjoy the years ahead of them . 
For those who are going into the election campaigns , I wish them well too , for safe campaigning and a very happy result . 
Mr President , I should like to thank Commissioner Patten for the work he has done . 
I wish him all the best -- drive carefully , Commissioner ! 
Mr President , concerning this problem , I tabled an amendment referring to ` public authority provide ' . 
I notice that other amendments - in particular Amendment 3 by the PSE Group - make a distinction between ` run ' and ` monitor ' . 
In my intention , ` provide ' is a verb ` monitor ' or ` run ' . 
So I put an oral amendment to all the amendments referring to the tendering process . 
Mr President , I hope that this empty Chamber does not reflect our lack of interest in what happens in Russia , however understandable the situation is here on a Thursday afternoon . 
What happens in Russia is in our interests ; its interests are our interests . 
Sadly , the clock in Russia is now being turned back nearly to Soviet times . 
There is , at the moment , no independent judiciary , there is no free television , and the political opposition has been totally marginalised . 
I will not even talk about what is happening in Chechnya ; human life is very cheap there . 
Regarding NGOs , what happens to them is another link in this far too long chain of sad events in Russia . 
We have to speak with one voice ; otherwise , we reduce our position to something insignificant . 
We can not have a good Christmas , we can not have a good conscience , if we do not see what is happening to our near neighbour . 
. Mr President , I can only echo the statement made by the honourable Member , Mr Smith . 
We do seem to be going over the same subject again and again , with no real result . 
Is it because Cambodia is too far away ? 
Human suffering , regardless of where it happens , is always the same when it comes to the individual . 
I should cite what Human Rights Watch said about Cambodia in 2005 : ` The political opposition was effectively dismantled with the arrest or threat of arrest of opposition parliamentarians and the impunity of perpetrators of human rights abuses continued . 
Political trials demonstrated the Government 's ongoing control , interference and intimidation in the work of the courts . ' 
That is the bleak situation in Cambodia . 
I should remind you that in 1997 the only opposition politician , Sam Rainsy -- who , paradoxically , is protected by this House 's Freedom-Passport Initiative -- was giving a speech in the capital when several grenades were launched into the crowd in front of him and at least 16 people died . 
That is what happens when an opposition leader makes a speech in the capital of that country . 
We can not continue just paying lip service ; we must put our money where our mouth is . 
As Mr Smith said , one of the most effective penalties would be to stop giving money to Cambodia as long as the criteria of democracy and human rights are not fulfilled . 
Also , a travel visa ban on officials would be very effective , because the elite of that country come to the capitals of Europe to shop and so forth . 
In contrast , however , free trade has to be retained . 
Trade sanctions will only increase the poverty and misery of the people . 
The sympathy of this House is with those people in Cambodia who are fighting for democracy and human rights . 
When it comes to human rights and the value of human dignity , we are dealing with variable geometry : when it is close to us , human life seems to matter , but when it is far away , we do not get our act together . 
I have often driven in that part of the world . 
I know that barren land ; I know how those people live -- or rather , survive -- in those conditions , even when there is no conflict . 
They are exposed to famine , shortages of food and a lack of drinking water . 
You can not imagine how hard their lives are . 
How many more conflicts do we need ? 
Even in the Balkans we did not get our act together until far too late . 
And now Darfur is far too far away . 
China and Russia are very cynically blocking our efforts in the United Nations . 
Sudan 's rotten regime -- I am sorry that I have to use non-diplomatic language -- is blocking UN efforts , and we are powerless . 
You saw the dark clouds on the horizon and you did nothing ' . 
Mr President , it is a pity that the Commissioner had to go because now our immortal speeches will not make an impact on the EU 's future , but never mind . 
We have to congratulate him on a good job under very difficult conditions . 
Today we have to play tough but fair , and I underline the word ` fair ' , because we are not talking about the three months to come , we are talking about three generations . 
That is what we need to focus on . 
That is what Finland has done over the last 50 years . 
Look at the fantastic progress Portugal has made in 20 years . 
Today we must say ` no ' to populism and ` yes ' to vision . 
We must say ` yes ' to leadership , because the progress of those countries towards harmonisation in the bigger European family depends on political will . 
It depends on our will to build a more stable world . 
Let me remind you that we would not have had the Balkans tragedy if those countries had had the hope of joining the EU 20 years ago . 
This is the power of enlargement , and we must see the bigger picture and not indulge in populism . 
We must support those who want to enforce the rule of law . 
That is what matters and we must believe that the democratic forces will win . 
Our moral duty today is to give people horizons -- not borders . 
That is the challenge . 
That would be completely unacceptable . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , 70 years ago , Mr Chamberlain came back from Munich waving a piece of paper and saying ` peace for our time ' . 
Well , we know how wrong he was , and we also know that wishful thinking is a deadly substitute for realism . 
Today , on this issue , we have to be brutally honest . 
I am very happy that Mr Solana is here today because finally we have this phone number for the EU . 
Mr Solana has this number , which Mr Kissinger asked for years ago . 
We have a financial crisis now , which did not fall on us from the sky . 
It was very much self-inflicted . 
We are talking about the toxic assets of banks and how we have to clear them . 
Perhaps this is also the time to ask : what are the toxic assets and what are the obstacles to our peacemaking , our raison d'être ? 
We are day-to-day politicians who are short-sighted . 
Immobility is our big problem . 
The world is changing around us , faster than we can react . 
What is the result of inefficient and failing security policies ? 
Human suffering , dead bodies , mutilated people and atrocities . 
Even if those people do not vote for us , we have to care for them because they are our brothers and sisters in the human family . 
On 2 April 1917 , President Wilson said , ' a steadfast concert of peace can never be maintained except by a partnership of democratic nations ' . 
President Wilson was awarded a Nobel Prize - which he deserved much more than Al Gore . 
We in the EU do not realise what kinds of tools we have in our mosaic composition of 27 countries . 
That gives us a unique tool in peacemaking . 
Perhaps some people do not like the French , others do not like the Germans , and perhaps some people do not like the Finns , even - but I think everybody likes the Finns ! - but , when we are together , 27 countries , nobody can say that they hate the EU . 
Therefore , the unique ability we have enables us to go to any crisis spot and be a doctor or a referee . 
But without the military capacity , without military credibility , we are like a dog whose bark is worse than its bite . 
We have idealism but we do not equip ourselves with the means to reach those targets . 
Now is the time to strike while the iron is hot : Il faut battre le fer tant qu'il est chaud , as the French say . 
Now , Mr Obama is the new President of the United States and he values Europe - he says that we are important allies . 
What do we have to do ? 
We have to get our act together . 
Already , 94 % of the European population is in NATO , and only 6 % are outside . 
Why do we not use it more efficiently ? 
Only by following in the footsteps of our forefathers can we be faithful to the EU 's inheritance and make the inevitable inconceivable - and that is what peacemaking means . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , I shall just repeat what President Wilson said in 1917 and what , for example , our honourable colleague Mr Swoboda said half an hour ago : the nation alone can not solve problems . 
This House , and the EU , are testimony to that . 
We have to learn from our mistakes . 
In whatever walk of life , we must work together : there is no cherry-picking , there is no free riding in the real world . 
We can not let the burden be borne by just some shoulders : we have to share it , because we are democratic nations . 
That is a noble cause . 
Sometimes I have difficulty in understanding why , immediately the word ` NATO ' is mentioned , people - perhaps because of their anti-American feelings , or because they have anti-military leanings - are against it . 
Yes , we are pacifists . 
Who is not a pacifist ? 
Anybody of sound mind is a pacifist . 
Who wants suffering ; who wants war ? 
But we must have the means to prevent it . 
We must be proactive . 
Wars come and go if there is this kind of attitude , but we must build peace actively . 
Let me make one last comment . 
Mr Platini - a maestro of football - is speaking in another hall at this very moment . 
No , we can not be silent : we must be proactive ; otherwise we condone these kinds of events in the world . 
in writing . - The Verts/ALE Group voted in favour of the resolution on the G20 for several reasons , among which : - by referring to the need to develop new indicators which go beyond GDP , the EP gives a clear signal that ` economic recovery ' must not be based on a ` business as usual approach ' , which is in line with our request to develop a ` Green New Deal ' ; - the resolution insists on the need to tackle global imbalances , especially exchange rate imbalances and commodity price volatility within a multilateral framework ; - the resolution sends a good signal towards the setting-up of a tax on financial transactions , which was never the case until now ; - as regards the financial crisis , the EP makes a strong statement on international coordination that should aim to avoid regulatory arbitrage . 
It also stresses that the upgrading of prudential rules within the context of the G20 consists of a ` minimum harmonisation ' approach that must not prevent the EU from applying higher standards ; - as regards supervision of the financial sectors , the EP has made a significant move towards an enhanced and more centralised approach on financial market supervision , with the setting up of a single financial supervisory authority being a final objective . 
It is a scandal ! 
The judgment is invalid because the regional court in Munich dismissed the action against Tobias Pflüger on 21 July 2009 in the second and final instance . 
It is politically unacceptable that this report , which contains incorrect facts , was voted in plenary today ( 24 November 2009 ) . 
This kind of proceeding by the European Parliament creates the impression of supporting the persecution of politically active persons , in this case , the Munich II Public Prosecution Service against the former Member of the European Parliament , Tobias Pflüger . 
We have tried to get this incomplete and therefore incorrect report taken off the agenda , unfortunately without success . 
There is still work to be done . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , at this time and hour , everything having been said , I am happy to leave you the last say in this matter , which you know as well as I do . 
I will give you three examples . 
The time for talking is over . 
Mr President , perhaps Mrs van der Laan meant a separate vote for each paragraph and not a split vote . 
That is different to a split vote . 
