If I have understood my colleague correctly , then it is enough to have a recommendation that the UK Government will lower the blood-alcohol level . 
Mr President , first of all the title of the resolution should be `` Freedom of Expression '' rather than `` Freedom of Religion '' because , as was mentioned earlier , Falun Gong is not a religion but rather a practice comparable to yoga in the West . 
Secondly , the repression against Falun Gong is totally absurd . 
Can you imagine repression against all the people who ever follow yoga classes in Europe ? 
The Chinese Government goes so far as to imprison cyber-dissidents meaning people who create or manage websites whose content does not please the government like Mr Huan Qi who is being tried now . 
Mr President , lesser-used European languages is correct . 
I want the original version with ` European ' in between - regional and lesser-used European languages . 
With all due respect I appreciate the decision the House has taken but this has not been a secret ballot . 
I know how all of my neighbouring colleagues have voted . 
I appreciate that if we want to have an open ballot we can do so , but then we should not pretend that we have been voting secretly . 
We should vote openly by a show of hands . 
Secondly , I should like to say to our colleagues in the PPE-DE Group that with all due respect , we could have used ballot papers in the same time as we have taken now . 
Perhaps we can now proceed in a way that is really secret . 
Mr President , a parallel process of regional integration has almost always accompanied the multilateral liberalisation of trade in the post-war period . 
In particular , the 1990 's witnessed an exponential increase in the number of regional trade agreements being negotiated . 
Regionalism refers to the reaction by governments to liberalise or facilitate trade on a regional basis , sometimes through free trade areas or customs unions . 
In a double WTO context , regional trade agreements have both a broader meaning and a more specific one . 
Article 24 of GATT allows for the exceptional establishment of preferential regional trade initiatives , granted that they meet the following criteria : firstly , double WTO members should be notified of the details ; secondly , duties and other trade barriers should be reduced or removed substantially on all sectors of trade in the group ; and thirdly , barriers of trade to non-signatories should not be higher than they were previously . 
Regional trade agreements are not uniform . 
In fact , a number of RTAs currently being negotiated seem to be anticipating an evolution of the multi-lateral trading system by seeking to cover subjects that have thus far been excluded from or not sufficiently discussed at a multilateral level , such as government procurement , child labour and human rights . 
In recent years RTAs have developed into a more complex configuration and there is a growing number of overlapping RTA networks that span across continents at regional and sub-regional level . 
RTAs are useful signals of a major power interest in the region , and maintaining strong economic and trade ties with all major powers may yet prove to be an effective means of maintaining regional stability . 
Differences in negotiating skills , technology , financing and quality of infrastructure are just a few of the impediments to the successful conclusion of an agreement involving at least one developing country . 
Yet the developing world can not be left out of multilateral trade liberalisation . 
Regional integration is the backbone of the European Union . 
The Presidency Conclusions of the Amsterdam European Council of June 1997 outline the basis of the EU 's policy on FTAs . 
This was supplemented by the report to the European Council on the development of trade policy and the preferential agreements of the Community , which sets out the EU 's objective of reflecting the nature of the relations with the partners concerned and a broader geopolitical environment . 
In the same document , the Commission goes on to state that the trade policy - particularly the FTA aspect - allows for the simultaneous development of a relevant regulatory framework in a more comprehensive manner than that currently allowed by the relevant multilateral framework and timeframe of the WTO . 
The European Parliament and the report by the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy support this approach by the Commission . 
The Commission puts the multilateral approach first , which is also supported by the committee . 
However , despite strong economic relations , the EU does not have a single FTA in Asia . 
An FTA with an Asian country will anchor the presence of the EU in that region . 
From a strategical viewpoint , the commercial presence of the EU would also counterbalance the influence and dominance of China and the United States . 
I hope that in the vote tomorrow my colleagues will support an agreement with Singapore , which I hope we could sign in the near future . 
Therefore I am convinced that in the near future there will be a mutual understanding between at least the ITRE Committee , the Commission and hopefully Parliament in its vote tomorrow . 
. Mr President , on 18 November this Parliament rejected by a very large majority the Commission 's proposal on excise duties on petrol and diesel . 
Pursuant to Rule 68 ( 3 ) of the Rules of Procedure , and after the Commission 's refusal to withdraw its proposal , I am reporting back to you to say that on 2 December the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs considered the matter again and reconfirmed its previous decision to reject the proposal . 
Representing the rapporteur , Mrs Kauppi , who is unable to be here today , I reiterate our belief that this harmonisation effort is not justified either from an environmental or from a competition point of view . 
We call upon the Commission to submit a new proposal and withdraw the current one in order to have a text more in sympathy with the recently adopted energy tax directive . 
An approach that eschews absolute harmonisation , for example with a rate band with an upper and lower limit , would be a more realistic option both in terms of chances of progress in the Council , and also in terms of allowing a degree of tax competition between Member States . 
There is also a need to coordinate taxation of fuels with infrastructure charges in order to guarantee a level playing field . 
For all these reasons , the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs calls upon the plenary of the European Parliament to reconfirm its rejection of the Commission 's proposal on excise duties on petrol and diesel . 
Instead , comprehensive victim protection must ensure a permanent residence permit , thus granting full access to medical and social support without preconditions . 
A clear distinction must be made between ` trafficking in human beings ' and the smuggling of migrants . 
Trafficking simply means helping immigrants to illegally enter Fortress Europe -- for profit or as a benevolent activity . 
Trafficking is based on a decision to migrate , but it often ends in exceptionally exploitative capitalist conditions of work later . 
` Illegal immigration ' is nothing more than the understandable reaction to EU-efforts to fence itself off from migratory flows resulting from global poverty , war and capitalist exploitation . 
` Illegal immigration ' is usually the only way to reach EU-territory at all . 
If you really want to help victims of trafficking and exploitation , you should not hide behind the interests of European law enforcement authorities and fob victims off with short-term residence permits . 
Instead , free access to the EU must be part of a free world so that people can move freely . 
Mr President , should I now speak in English to further confuse the interpreters ? 
Mr President , my Group disagrees with this voting arrangement . 
Mr President , we are to vote on the report of my colleague Mrs Rothe regarding the financial support of Northern Cyprus . 
This is good news : Northern Cyprus needs this aid . 
Over the last few decades events have separated the island politically and economically . 
The people of Cyprus suffered immensely from the partition of the island . 
All those involved must do their best to overcome the separation . 
It was the explicit aim of the United Nations and the EU that a united Cyprus would join the European Union on 1 May 2004 . 
The governments of Northern Cyprus and Turkey have followed the steps laid out by the United Nations and the EU . 
The population of Northern Cyprus has overwhelmingly supported the unification of the island as well as EU accession . 
It is our responsibility to encourage the two parts of the island to cooperate . 
The regulation on financial support that we are discussing today is the first step . 
The second step will be the regulation on special conditions for trade . 
During the times of the German Ostpolitik , we called this concept . 
More steps must follow soon . 
The ultimate aim must be the reunification of Cyprus . 
Mr President , the end of paragraph 7 should be amended to read ` insists that adult consensual sexual activity in private is covered by the concept of privacy and calls for the immediate release of all persons held for such activity ' . 
Mr President , I wish to thank Commissioner Frattini for attending this debate tonight , which is the first on data protection during this parliamentary term , on the initiative of my own Group , the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe . 
This is not the first time that Parliament has examined the issue of PNR , but it is almost two years to the day since Parliament first raised this issue . 
Tonight 's debate is therefore intended to take stock of what has happened since then . 
I have been appointed rapporteur on the initiative by four Member States relating to data retention . 
That is why some months ago we tabled two oral questions on the issue of PNR and the issue of data retention , with a view to having a public debate on two issues that raise serious concerns from the point of view of fundamental human rights , and to get more information from the Commission on these issues . 
Commissioner Frattini , we were pleased to hear during the EP hearings of candidate Commissioners that you attach a great deal of importance to defending fundamental rights , and I know that you are personally committed to defending citizens ' privacy . 
We appreciate that stance , but also want the Commission to bring forward the proposals on data protection under the third pillar that we have been promised for so long . 
The European Parliament finds itself in quite a conflictual situation vis-à-vis other EU institutions . 
On the data retention issue , I am unconvinced by the four Member States ' initiative , with regard both to the content and the legal basis . 
I know that the Commission shares these doubts . 
In general terms , the European Parliament is extremely worried about the compliance of these provisions with international and European human rights norms , such as the European Convention on Human Rights , and the related jurisprudence , as well as with EU law . 
On the issue of data retention , we know the Commission has raised the scrutiny reservation on the correctness of the legal basis of the four Member States ' proposal . 
The Commission believes that a third pillar basis is not correct , and that a first pillar basis would be the right one . 
We would be keen to view the Commission 's legal responding , since I have the same doubts and have requested Parliament 's legal service to make the same legal check . 
However , we also have doubts on the necessity and proportionality of European data retention provisions . 
That is why we would ask the Commission whether it supports the four Member States ' initiative not only in terms of the legal basis but also in terms of the content . 
Secondly , we would like to know whether the Commission will ask the four Member States to withdraw their initiative , a move the Commission has not yet made . 
We would also like to know if and when the Commission will propose a first pillar instrument . 
The Commission 2005 working programme schedules for this month the adoption by the Commission of a directive on the retention of data for law enforcement purposes . 
Will this deadline be respected and what will the content of the proposal be ? 
Thirdly , we would like an update on the long-overdue third pillar data protection instrument that Commissioner Frattini personally promised would be brought forward . 
Let me underline that the Article 29 Working Party has already drafted a proposal for harmonised data protection principles for the third pillar . 
We would be honoured to hear your remarks on this issue . 
On the PNR issue , Parliament has a keen interest and a right to have an update on the current action before the Court of Justice , with Parliament objecting to the signing of the international agreement of 28 May 2004 that makes the transfer of air passenger data to the US possible . 
First of all , Parliament has consistently requested the development of a push system , most recently in the amendment adopted to the 2005 budget . 
Can the Commission inform Parliament whether there have been any developments ? 
With a view to the protection of the privacy of European air passengers , could the Commission inform Parliament of the volume of passenger data which the authorities have access to and whether there is an effective filtering of sensitive data . 
Also , are intra-European flights excluded ? 
The Commission has published a communication on a global EU approach on PNR . 
However , the Commission is evidently not following a coherent approach , since on the one hand it has not finalised the international agreement with Australia , while on the other hand it is ready to negotiate with Canada on standards that are entirely different from those which apply to the US . 
Will the Commission follow up on the communication and will it start adhering to a truly global EU approach ? 
Finally , why has Parliament never been informed about the negotiations on PNR at an ICAO level ? 
The current practice is not democratic , transparent or justifiable . 
Thank you , and I look forward to hearing your answers . 
The ALDE Group welcomes Mrs Buitenweg 's report on the proposal for a Council framework decision on criminal judicial cooperation . 
Procedural safeguards are an indispensable supplement in an area where cooperation between Member States ' judicial and law enforcement agencies is ever closer . 
We believe that while the mutual recognition of decisions necessitates trust between Member States , it is equally important that suspects affected enjoy equivalent rights . 
I must admit that as a new Member of this Parliament it was quite frightening to hear that in the European Union this was not the case in the past . 
But it is now satisfactorily regulated that suspects have the same rights throughout Europe ; so I am very happy that this framework decision is now on the table . 
We wanted to guarantee the rights of disabled people and psychological assistance . 
We wanted the Letter of Rights to be made accessible to the disabled , the inclusion of victims ' rights and the setting-up of an independent body of experienced , independent and properly remunerated lawyers . 
We are very happy that the rapporteur has taken most of these ideas on board . 
This is a very good outcome and that is why we support the rapporteur 's original line . 
We aim to give equal rights to suspects regardless of the type of suspicion they are under . 
We aim for equal protection and for harmonisation . 
Finally , I am very satisfied that the majority of the Committee on Civil Liberties , Justice and Home Affairs supported our amendments , which were aimed at giving equal rights to the disabled and clarified the obligations as regards lawyers and interpreters . 
Mrs Buitenweg , the ALDE Group will support you and your report . 
We express our condolences and stress that the McCartney family deserve the fullest support in their pursuit of justice . 
Respecting what the sisters of Robert McCartney underlined when they visited the European Parliament on 6 April , that this murder had no political background , but was a criminal act which should be prosecuted and those responsible brought to justice , GUE/NGL made every attempt to agree a common resolution with the other political groups . 
We very much regret that they were not willing to compromise , preferring to use the resolution to focus on the political situation in the North of Ireland . 
GUE/NGL will be happy to deal with this issue in the European Parliament , but today 's voted resolution is not the correct way to do it . 
Mr President , I would like to thank the Commissioner for his presentation . 
I have a question about the ten priorities . 
Point 3 is devoted to migration management as a so-called new balanced approach to migration management . 
The problem , as mentioned , is that the decision as to how many migrants coming from third countries can be admitted to the European Union remains a national decision . 
The Commission suggested that an area of free movement demands a common immigration policy , and we agree with that . 
How will the Commission try to overcome the contradiction embedded in the fact that , on the one hand , the European Union is developing a common European asylum system , a common European visa system and common European border control , while , on the other hand , legal migration , which is a very important part of migration management , remains a strictly national question ? 
The Parliament 's Resolution is even worse than the Commission proposals . 
The EU is becoming more and more militarised . 
The spending of an additional one billion Euros on armament research would be yet a further step in this direction . 
In rejecting the Constitutional Treaty , the people of France and the Netherlands also rejected the EU militarisation envisaged in that Treaty . 
It is a scandal that the protagonists of this militarized EU are simply going ahead with their plans regardless . 
Instead of pretending to create jobs with huge spending on armaments , the EU should spend more on civil research programs - and not follow in the footsteps of the United States . 
You showed how disappointed you are , which is no surprise after a second negative arbitration decision . 
That seems to be inherent in the case of bananas . 
Secondly , what are the different scenarios you are evaluating ? 
For the Committee on International Trade , it would be more than relevant to know what you have in mind . 
Finally , as my colleague said , I wonder whether this is not going to overshadow Hong Kong . 
I would like to know how you are going to make a situation that is not easy in any case -- given that sugar and many other difficult issues are on the agenda -- look a little more positive . 
After all , they are the infrastructure for the torture flights . 
The EU , in the security political arena and precisely as far as the so-called struggle against terrorism is concerned , has agreed on a close cooperation with NATO and the USA . 
Agreements on secret service cooperation and on the unlimited transfer of information classified secret are part of the `` Berlin plus agreement '' , which allows the EU to take military action using NATO capacities . 
In February 2003 , there was agreed directly with the USA a close cooperation in the transport of suspects . 
The scandalous behaviour in this sense is not only that of the US government , but the blame must also rest with the EU officials and the EU governments in the know . 
Nevertheless , I want to thank the Commissioner for presenting his point of view and for intervening . 
My starting point is that the anti-dumping measures and instruments need to be taken quite seriously . 
On that point , I support my colleague Mr Sturdy , who is right . 
If we do not use the instrument in a transparent and fair way it could become quite complicated for us . 
My first question to the Commissioner is : will the EU produce an overall assessment of the conditions of competition and state intervention in the People 's Republic of China ? 
The European Parliament would also like to receive a report on China 's compliance with WTO rules and accession commitment five years after its accession to the WTO . 
Would the EC take WTO action if China and Vietnam do not stop their unfair actions within a reasonable period of time and what would these measures be ? 
Commissioner , do you agree that the EC agreement and the results of the AD investigations are confidential and that leaks of information may lead to market distortions ? 
Could you explain in detail the rationale behind the exclusion of children 's footwear , especially in view of the fact that in some countries children 's footwear is worn by adults ? 
Could you explain why the publication of the results of the anti-surveillance system were so delayed ? 
If I am not completely mistaken , it was one year . 
One small point : how do you see this investigation relating to another evaluation which is currently being undertaken as regards giving China market economy status ? 
Mr President , I would like to ask the Commissioner if he could make a short comment on a question raised by many of our colleagues on granting market economy status to China . 
Mr President , I have one short question concerning the point the Commissioner just raised , that the April meeting will be a general Council meeting . 
According to the information I have received , the general Council meeting might be changed -- if it is successful -- to a ministerial meeting . 
In that case , the usual practice is that we have politicians available . 
Could you please evaluate with your fellow Commissioners , and with Commissioner Mandelson , how you would like to proceed in such a case . 
I would like to express , on behalf of my Group , our great concern about the situation in Turkey that we have seen in the media . 
Over the past week at least 15 people have lost their lives in clashes between demonstrators and Turkish security forces in the south-east and in terrorist attacks in Istanbul . 
We strongly condemn the disproportionate use of force by police forces in Diyarbakir and Kiziltepe . 
But at the same time , we vehemently denounce the provocations by the PKK , whose leaders deliberately stir up violence and riots . 
After three municipal buses in Istanbul were burnt without any casualties , two young sisters were killed on Sunday evening when a bus was attacked . 
The majority of the Kurds , who wish to build a decent life in the towns or to return to their villages , should not be hostage to cynical leadership associated with the military wing of the PKK which wants to escalate the conflict , as well as some people in the ` deep state ' in Turkey . 
In the light of the recent events we have the feeling that some of our colleagues in the European Parliament were not telling the whole story in the e-mails that were circulated recently . 
They give the impression of a black and white situation in which no Turk wants to grant more rights to the Kurds and every Kurd is an oppressed victim . 
That is why I believe it is important that we draw attention to the debate that is currently going on in civil society in Turkey , amongst intellectuals of Turkish and Kurdish origin . 
I finish by quoting a former mayor of Diyarbakir , who has just pointed out : ` If we are going to have real peace here , the PKK has to adjust itself to the new world situation . 
The Turkish state is becoming more democratic . 
It also needs to renovate its leadership . 
This organisation was formed with a Cold War mentality . 
It needs to evolve ' . 
In my view , the Commission is seeking to amalgamate various budget lines . 
If it succeeds , it will no longer be possible for this Parliament to take decisions on how much is allocated to important sectors such as combating HIV/AIDS . 
Parliament should not allow its powers to be curtailed in this way . 
Secondly , the Commission 's APS document does not refer at all to the Millennium Development Goals or sectors important for poverty reduction , particularly education and poverty diseases . 
What is more , I have to insist that the ` simplification ' of the legislative context for external action for the period from 2007 to 2013 must not result in a loss of transparency in the use of development policy resources and that the breakdown between budget lines for geographical regions and thematic sectors for the 2007 budget must allow for at least the same level of visibility as the 2006 budget . 
In addition , let me mention the importance of the Commission monitoring the Member States and their official development assistance levels , because of the problem of some Member States overstating ODA levels by taking into account funds that are not actually part of ODA . 
Linked to the ODA level is aid effectiveness and quality . 
The Commission must continue to implement the Paris Agenda on aid effectiveness and show the public that EU development aid makes a difference . 
Finally , I want to underline the need always to put the fight against poverty at the top of the EU agenda and , therefore , the need to strive for a substantial share of aid to go to the LDCs . 
Mr President , this is very simple . 
I would like to add ` and biodiesel ' after the word ` bioethanol ' in Amendment 15 . 
In view of growing concerns about civil rights and protection of personal data of EU citizens , ALDE feels further assurances are needed in this area . 
The case of SWIFT casts doubts on the adequacy of data protection instruments in the EU . 
A fundamental debate must be held first . 
Mr President , I would like to thank the Commissioner , and also thank the rapporteur for this excellent report , which touches on all the issues that are relevant when talking about India . 
The Commissioner mentioned one specific point to which I think we should give in-depth consideration , and that is that India might finally become a geopolitical centre in the 21st century . 
But we will certainly have to focus , because to deal with both countries and many more countries to come as regards bilateral agreements might be something that is impossible for the Commission whilst making sure that the multilateral round flourishes . 
So I would like to point out to the rapporteur and the House that my Group will be a little more cautious when it comes to a free-trade agreement . 
We are not against a free-trade agreement ; quite the opposite . 
We already argued in favour of a free-trade agreement and regional agreement in 2002 , when I presented my own report to this House , but I think we should first have an in-depth debate and discussion on the issue . 
The Commission will produce its new policy report on 4 October , in only a few weeks . 
So we will not support a free-trade agreement at the moment , because we want to have a debate in our Group first and we want to be clear that Parliament will be fully involved in the debate and the consultation process . 
It is important and relevant to see a shift from the multilateral to the more bilateral agreement and to make sure that there is some coherence when it comes to trade policy . 
That is one of the reasons why tomorrow we are not going to support the idea of a free-trade agreement at this stage . 
I am happy also that Mr Karim touched on the various high-tech issues . 
I think it is absolutely essential that we focus more on India and cooperate more closely with it . 
Now , everything I said is not on behalf of Glyn Ford , who is the shadow rapporteur . 
He apologises to Mr Karim for not being here . 
He has to go back to England , but he will certainly follow up the issues and discuss them in detail . 
On the other hand , we underline that the compromise found on funding of research using human embryos and human embryonic stem-cells does not reflect the position of the EPP-ED Group as fixed before the first reading in June . 
We regret that the European Parliament did not support this amendment , especially because only 19 more votes were needed for the necessary majority . 
We welcome the adoption of FP7 . 
In a vote after discussion on many occasions , a big majority of the Group supported Amendment 319 by Niebler and others , who sought to fix a deadline . 
The EPP-ED accepts that , according to the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament , Amendment 319 can not be tabled for the second reading . 
This does not change the position of the EPP-ED Group in this area . 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Madam President , it is a pleasure to see you in the Chair . 
What is interesting and fascinating about this debate is that we are talking about a plurilateral agreement that is very specific in character . 
It is , of course , part of the multilateral framework but , as it is plurilateral in character , it allows much more flexibility for those Member States that are part of this agreement . 
With regard to this , and as it is its tenth anniversary , could the Commissioner tell us a little bit about it : how it worked in the past , whether he is satisfied with it and thinks it is a worthwhile undertaking that is worth renegotiating . 
It is not part of his portfolio , but does he consider that it is also worthwhile renegotiating the telecoms agreement , which is also ten years old this year ? 
With regard to the agreement on government procurement - which Mr Audy mentioned - we are very concerned about SMEs , because we know by experience that they are definitely having much more difficulty in accessing international markets . 
What is the Commission going to do about it beyond what has been done in the past ? 
China is of great concern . 
We are happy to have China as part of the global environment , but it puts a lot of pressure on some companies . 
So once China becomes a member of the plurilateral agreement , what safeguards will the Commissioner put in place to safeguard the interests of European companies and workers ? 
How much is this exercise part of global Europe ? 
How much is it related to the new approach from the Commission agreeing on different bilateral agreements and what will be part of this connection ? 
With regard to services of general interest , how , again , will the Commissioner ensure that European interests will be safeguarded ? 
Can the Commissioner tell us more about that ? 
He has not touched on that . 
Finally , can the Commissioner ensure that Parliament will be kept informed ? 
Can he promise that the Committee on International Trade , which has just elected its new chairman this morning , will also be kept informed ? 
in writing . - The German Presidency was a disaster . 
The so-called reform treaty which is labelled a success is not preparing the ground for a social , democratic and peaceful EU . 
On the contrary , the EU is more divided now . 
Worst in this respect were threats by German politicians like PSE chairman Martin Schulz against Poland and Great Britain . 
Furthermore , the militarisation of the EU has been accelerated and there have been no commitments for another policy on climate change . 
Any new EU Treaty should be decided by referendum in all Member States . 
It is impossible always to talk about getting citizens more involved in European affairs while at the same time not letting them have a say on the most important issues in the EU . 
My wish would be that the voices of the people who rejected the constitutional treaty because of its neo-liberal and militaristic character were finally heard . 
I see the contrary , however : we are facing an attempt to get the substance of the constitutional treaty adopted through the back door by renaming the project ` reform treaty ' and excluding the possibility of referendums . 
If the EU is to be based on democratic principles this has to be prevented . 
We will support you . 
That is their choice . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , I thank the Commissioner for his speech . 
The big question is how to finance the consequences of the crisis , and there the German Minister of Finance , together with the Chancellor , suggested that the G20 discuss the possibility of a global transaction tax . 
The second question is about tax havens . 
The Development Committee suggested a country-by-country reporting regime so that transnational corporations have to report back on a country-by-country basis . 
We suggest introducing automatic information exchange so that information really flows between the different countries . 
A global financial system needs transparency . 
We also want to know your position on these concrete proposals to get out of the crisis and finance the consequences . 
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group . - Mr President , my group , the GUE/NGL Group , considers that the ` made in ' origin marking of products which come from outside the EU is an urgent necessity for the European Union . 
In a largely globalised and deregulated world , it is absolutely necessary to enable consumers to know where a product comes from and what they are buying . 
I think this is an area where citizens and consumers really understand what Europe is , and how Europe can contribute to international trade and the world outside . 
I agree with my colleagues that we should adopt the 2005 approach to origin marking . 
In our view , that is the very minimum that should be ensured for the European consumers and citizens . 
It could also favour the small and medium-sized industries of Europe . 
We call on the Commission and on the Council to submit this quickly for consideration by the European Parliament . 
Among other things , it is a matter of a coherent approach to policy making , and I think that in this area , international trade can also contribute to international peace . 
The judgment is invalid , because the regional court in Munich http://dict.leo.org/ende?lp=ende&p=5tY9AA&search=dismiss '' ed http://dict.leo.org/ende?lp=ende&p=5tY9AA&search=an '' http://dict.leo.org/ende?lp=ende&p=5tY9AA&search=action '' against Tobias Pflüger on 21 July 2009 in the second and final instance . 
It is politically unacceptable that this report , which contains incorrect facts , was voted in Plenary today ( 24 November 2009 ) . 
We have tried to get this incomplete and therefore incorrect report taken from the agenda , unfortunately without success . 
This kind of proceeding by the European Parliament creates the impression of supporting the persecution of politically active persons , in this case , the Munich II Public Prosecution Service against a former Member of the European Parliament . 
The central point is that the report cites a judgment at first instance which has been repealed . 
in writing . - On 9 November 2009 , the report on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of Tobias Pflüger was voted and adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs ( JURI ) in the European Parliament . 
This report is based on incorrect facts . 
A conviction was not made . 
For this reason , all reproaches are invalid . 
That is simply not true . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - I will continue a bit on what the previous speaker said . 
Yemen is certainly not a new crisis : it has been deteriorating for decades , and the worsening political situation was clearly stated in the Commission 's mid-term review . 
I think we really need to focus on the political context : the longstanding conflict in the north between the government and the Houthis , the unrest in the south , you mentioned these - and now the northern conflict is spreading in the region and concerning Saudi Arabia and Iran . 
So the question is : what , precisely , to do . 
I have heard calls just now for the stability instrument for a CSDP mission to pour money into training more people , but I think that this is not sufficient as an approach - at least it is not a crisis response , unless we accept the concept of permanent crisis . 
I think we should push for greater involvement by the Gulf Cooperation Council in Yemen , not just Saudi Arabia . 
If we have another CSDP mission and another round of Stability Instrument training without a political process leading somewhere , I do not think it will help us . 
I really urge you to use the Stability Instrument more as an early-warning political instrument to move on a political process , and to support and finance that . 
I think that that would be , from my perspective , something worthwhile . 
I would like to add another point : gender equality has been mentioned , and you raised that , and I think we really should invest heavily in that . 
Population growth is one of the main concerns in those countries , and , as we all know , we will not solve that issue until we have family planning , and that means women 's rights . 
I know that you will not push for major women 's rights , but I think gender equality and especially family planning is crucial if we are now considering what to do in order to help Yemeni society . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group , I should first like to extend a warm welcome to this House to Mr Füle as Commissioner . 
We are happy to work with you and look forward to our future cooperation . 
I would also like to thank Mr Swoboda for the good cooperation on the Croatia report . 
I think there was good cooperation in the process and I thank my colleagues . 
( DE ) The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is in favour of Croatia joining the European Union quickly and we welcome very much the rapid progress which this country has made . 
The credibility and validity of this promise represent an enormous incentive for all the states in the region to implement far-reaching reforms which will make these countries more secure , more stable and more prosperous . 
It is important to say with regard to Croatia that the civil service there must be strengthened and made more transparent . 
The decisive factor here is not only the adoption of new legislation but , above all , the administrative implementation of the laws . 
We in the Verts/ALE group would like to see better results in this area . 
We believe that the only solution to the problems of corruption and organised crime is the consistent implementation of new laws and directives . 
The same applies to the judiciary and the particularly important chapter concerning the judicial system that has not yet been negotiated . 
For this reason , we are proposing four amendments , which I would like to encourage you to vote for . 
My final point is that we have no vision for a new energy policy for Croatia . 
Therefore , we would like to call on you to support our Amendment 7 . 
We are looking forward to Croatia joining the European Union soon . 
in writing . - The Greens/EFA Group gives conditional support to an increase in the secretarial assistance allowance at this stage of the procedure . 
The group may reconsider its support for the increase in the assistants ' allowance in view of the outcome of this evaluation and discussions within our group . 
To ensure effective multilateral efforts , they must be set within a well-developed vision of achieving a nuclear weapon-free world at the earliest date possible . 
We oppose the phrase in this joint resolution ( Recital G ) : ' ... making use of all instruments at its disposal to prevent ... ' . 
I warn , in particular regarding Iran , that any military activity to prevent proliferation is completely counterproductive and highly dangerous . 
That is not sufficient . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , following this debate , I would like to make three quick points . 
Firstly , looking at the different opinions here in the House , we do not have the same opinion on the question of imbalances . 
There were differences which were quite clear and I think we have to be careful . 
Some countries had cost increases which were too high , and it is good that you are acting . 
On the other hand , there are several countries which use tax policy as well as their wage-setting arrangements to ensure they fall below this threshold . 
If you do not act on those - and I know that some in the Ecofin do not agree with this approach - then we will be setting fire to the economic basis of the eurozone and that is very dangerous . 
I urge you not to be blind in one eye and I urge my colleagues likewise . 
Look at Greece and the stability programme , which was praised . 
I would like to stress that there is a major problem , and I refer to what I learnt during my visit to Greece last week . 
Most people in Greece feel that during the last 10 or 20 years , a lot of people became very rich under circumstances which were not just . 
If you praise the Irish efforts , you can not compare it to the situation in Greece . 
People in Greece feel they should not suffer because of things they have not caused . 
Therefore , I urge you , Mr Rehn , also to put pressure on the Greek Government to get serious on illegitimate wealth which has been accumulated in the past . 
Otherwise , the programme will be not accepted and it will also fail for economic reasons . 
We have to make sure that the programme is socially just - and it is not yet socially just . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , I would just like to inform you that the amendment to paragraph 8 by the GUE/NGL Group and the Verts/ALE Group has the same wording as in the resolution of September 2009 . 
I would just like to inform you that it is just the same position , and I do not think that there is a need to change this position before the negotiations on SWIFT . 
The European Union has indeed been acting as a ` Global Player ' but , in my view , not at all in a positive way towards a more fair and solidary world order . 
in writing . - On behalf of the S&D Group , I want to express our general consent to this report . 
It is important that the European Parliament fights for greater transparency in regional policy , but we reject the so-called ` naming and shaming ' , as asked for in point 16 of this report . 
We certainly agree to a tougher line on communication and information requirements , but the goal of more transparency - which we also support - should not be achieved by the wrong means . 
We are afraid of having a ` witch-hunt ' when naming and shaming is carried out . 
The European Commission should not be made a moral authority which achieves group discipline by naming , shaming or blaming . 
We also reject this approach as it could lead to a more complex situation and non-implementation in the Member States . 
Despite this concern , we agree - as stated above - with the general ideas of the report and think it is very helpful . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , I would like to congratulate everyone involved on how we have done this and where we are today . 
We have laid the ground for an inclusive service that is based on equality and an esprit de corps . 
Thank you , Mrs Ashton , for mentioning the training measures in respect of gender equality and geographical balance in your proactive measures . 
I should like to thank everyone in this House , Mrs Ashton and the Presidency . 
But have we created a modern service that is more than a 28th national diplomatic service ? 
What is the added value of the European External Action Service ? 
I think the game is still open . 
Along these lines , do we need more deputy ambassadors ? 
Or will it not be your role , Mrs Ashton , to send an SMS ? 
Should we not have a debate on whether we really need these people , and what we need them for ? 
I hope your establishment plan and your staffing priorities will reflect the priorities as promised and will make the service really deliver added value - something that not every national diplomatic service has , and can do . 
For us , there are two priorities : conflict prevention and civilian crisis management . 
Create a mediation cell , for example . 
On human rights , we want this service to be strong on human rights , with capacity at the highest level . 
In that respect , I think it would be a good idea to have an overview and review of the existing CSDP missions that have been completed , to learn from the past for the future of your service , Mrs Ashton . 
I think that will bring us all forward . 
I wish everyone luck and I am ready to cooperate again constructively in the future . 
rapporteur . - What will happen after 2013 ? 
As regards the stability instrument , we have seen that it is wonderful because it is more flexible than other instruments , but that also occasionally leads to misuse for food crises , for humanitarian and natural disasters . 
That should really be stopped and we should clarify , for the period after 2013 , that this is really for conflict situations , and maybe add more flexibility to other instruments in order to address more emergency situations . 
I think we should build on this when we look at the period after 2013 , and ask : What do we need in terms of money and resources so as to really become a driving force for conflict prevention ? 
in writing . - I absolutely agree with and support the tabled amendments , especially the ones on the delegated acts and restoring the European Parliament 's right of scrutiny . 
But I abstained on the final vote on the Instrument ( DCI ) itself as , directly or indirectly , the African Peace Facility was funded through this instrument , and this funding was used inter alia for police and army training missions . 
I am of the opinion that development funding must not be used for any military or civil-military purposes . 
in writing . - Though not very ambitious , the first reading compromise improves the current legislation - I therefore voted in favour . 
Besides the new methodology for substance restrictions , one key improvement is the open scope : all electric and electronic equipment , including equipment for the generation of electric currents , will in the medium term fall under the RoHS legislation . 
A major drawback , however , is the long list of exclusions , including photovoltaic panels . 
Excluding this decisive ` clean ' technology from environmental legislation will send the wrong signal , EU-wide and globally . 
This is about setting the right regulatory framework for coherent sustainable investments ! 
Even if the production of photovoltaic panels with hazardous substances like cadmium telluride might be more cost-efficient , less problematic alternatives have existed for a long time and have proved to function excellently . 
I do not see any need , therefore , to cover our roofs and fields with potentially hazardous waste , shifting the disposal challenge to future generations . 
On this point , I strongly disagree with the position and decision of the EP 's and Council 's majority . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , on behalf of the Commission and , in particular , Vice-President Reding , I want to thank the rapporteur for this valuable report analysing several key aspects concerning the influence of modern advertising and consumer behaviour . 
In order to find out how to best address the challenges arising from the development of the Internet and new technologies , the Commission has consulted widely on the existing legal framework for data protection throughout 2009 and 2010 . 
The consultations have confirmed that the underlying principles of the current EU data protection legislation are still very much valid . 
However , it became equally clear that the EU needs a more comprehensive and more coherent approach in its policy for personal data protection for the EU and beyond . 
As a consequence , on 4 November , the Commission adopted a communication on a comprehensive approach on personal data protection in the European Union . 
Online advertising delivers many benefits to European citizens , in particular , by giving them free access to services . 
Many of the targeting techniques - display , contextual and certain search-related adverts , etc. - do not involve any tracking and are not a subject of major concern . 
My colleague , Vice-President Neelie Kroes , has called on the industry to establish a self-regulatory framework for online behavioural advertising based on the EU legal framework and the four principles of effective transparency , an appropriate form of affirmation or consent , user friendliness and effective enforcement . 
The Commission will monitor the industry 's efforts to assess whether more regulatory action is necessary . 
The Member States have until May 2011 to transpose these provisions into national law . 
The Commission acknowledges that there are certain differences in the transposition of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive between the Member States . 
The Commission considers that such differences , some of which the Commission is solving through cooperation with the Member States , are marginal , and that the desired level of harmonisation seems to have been attained . 
The use of general clauses gives some leeway to the Member States but ensures , at the same time , that the directive is future-proof . 
In this connection , the guidance on the application of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive is one of the initiatives taken by the Commission to make sure that full harmonisation is effective ; in other words , to ensure that the same rules are interpreted and applied in the same manner in the Member States . 
As suggested by the draft report , we will definitely continue our work on the guidance and update this document to take account of new issues and developments . 
The Commission is also developing a legal database on the legislation , jurisprudence and academic work which will foster uniform application of the directive in the Member States . 
As regards the statements in relation to advertising in the form of comments posted on social networks , forums and blogs , it is important to note that , whenever consumers acting on behalf of a trader and/or are in any way financed by a trader to make certain representations without this being made clear in the opinion or statement , this is actually covered by the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive as a form of hidden advertising . 
As far as mere opinions are concerned , these , of course , do not qualify as advertising . 
In this connection , the Commission considers that marketing legislation is not the most adequate instrument , as it is a matter of freedom of expression . 
The directive nevertheless contains specific safeguards concerning vulnerable consumers . 
Age is a factor which national authorities must take into account when assessing the fairness of a practice . 
The report on the application of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive , which is due in 2011 , will build on the Member States ' experience , including in the field of advertising to children and adolescents , to the extent the data on this aspect will be available . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , on behalf of the Commission and of Commissioner Barnier in particular , I will answer by saying that improving transparency in financial markets and ensuring that all relevant market actors are subject to appropriate levels of regulation are key aims of this Commission and of the G20 . 
Its recommendations are being closely integrated into the Commission 's thinking as we prepare the proposal for amending the existing directive in 2011 . 
The MiFID review is an important part of the Commission 's agenda towards a more stable and transparent financial system working for society and the economy as a whole . 
Many pieces have already been put in place , not least , the launch of a new EU supervisory authority as of next month . 
The Commission is committed to delivering proposals in the remaining areas by summer 2011 . 
We count on the support of the European Parliament in moving swiftly to adopt the necessary reforms in order to ensure they are applied as soon as possible thereafter . 
As you know , MiFID is a cornerstone of the EU regulatory framework for financial markets . 
It pre-dates the financial crisis but has , on the whole , proven to function well , even in the difficult and turbulent times of recent years . 
Of course , some shortcomings have emerged . 
Technological progress and rapid developments in financial markets have also ensured that regulatory devices which were state-of-the-art some years ago are clearly outdated today . 
On 8 December , the Commission published draft proposals for a consultation . 
We intend to be ambitious and comprehensive in tackling all challenges . 
While recognising that the original objectives of MiFID are still valid , the issues at stake are critical aspects of how our financial markets function , how open and transparent they need to be and how investors can gain access to financial instruments and investment opportunities . 
Like the draft Economic Affairs Committee report , we perceive the need for improvements in the regulation of new types of trading platforms and trading methodologies . 
This should take proper account of the nature of the business with a view to ensuring a level playing field between actors and proper protection for investors as well as against disruptive market practices . 
We also agree with the need to improve transparency rules applicable to trading in shares and to introduce new requirements for trading in other instruments . 
Another important area touched upon also in Dr Swinburne 's report is to improve the functioning and regulation of commodity derivative markets in line with G20 principles . 
Furthermore , we aim to introduce targeted improvements to the existing rules regarding investor protection . 
Ensuring all products and selling practices are suitably covered under equal rules is a vital component in restoring investor confidence . 
In taking the work forward , the Commission services are working closely with our international partners , notably with the responsible regulators in the United States who are looking at the same issues , to ensure international convergence and avoid any risk of regulatory arbitrage . 
The report by Ms Swinburne comes at an important juncture in the process of regulatory reform . 
We are encouraged by the commitment shown by MEPs and by the fact that your analyses and recommendations coincide very closely with ours . 
This report reinforces the basis for our work ahead . 
The Commission is aware of the habitually slower take-up at the beginning of a programming period . 
However , the most recent data show that the Commission made more cohesion policy payments in the fourth quarter of 2010 than ever before . 
The vast majority of the payments made were interim payments , i.e. reimbursements of expenditure already made and certified in the Member States . 
Thus , it is certain that , as has been seen in previous programming periods , cohesion policy spending is accelerating . 
Absorption rates , in terms of EU payments to Member States , are now at 21 % for the Cohesion Fund , 22 % for the European Regional Development Fund ( ERDF ) and 23 % for the European Social Fund ( ESF ) . 
As regards support provided to multinational and large companies , the Commission would emphasise that a primary objective of cohesion policy is growth and the creation of new jobs for particular regions and Member States . 
Any support for productive investment has to be seen in that context . 
Cohesion policy intervention supports productive investment that is primarily targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises , as specified by the ERDF and ESF regulations . 
The Commission also stressed the role of small and medium-sized enterprises during negotiation of the current programming documents . 
The vast majority of productive investment and investment in the development of endogenous potential is targeted at SMEs . 
However , there may be cases where , in line with the regulations , cofinancing is granted to larger companies subject to compliance with the objectives of the funds and programmes concerned . 
In total , cohesion policy has allocated some EUR 55 billion to business support between 2007 and 2013 , a large share of which supports innovation in SMEs . 
Workers receive the cofinanced training . 
The ESF supports people . 
It is about providing training and retraining and improving skills to prepare people and help them find a job . 
A worker who has been employed in a given enterprise may well then find himself or herself engaged in another company . 
Therefore , what matters is the skill capital that workers manage to build to sustain their inclusion in the labour market , not the name or type of enterprises providing the training . 
The Commission considers that , from a policy perspective , firms should not receive European funding for investments which would lead to the loss of employment by the same company in another region of the European Union , because the net effect of the ESF investment might be zero or even negative . 
In cases where a company which has received cohesion policy support closes down , or ceases to support a project , within five years - or three years in the case of SMEs - this funding needs to be paid back . 
My final point - but it is a crucial one - is that while there are clearly areas for improvement , this can not and should not overshadow the major positive impact that cohesion policy is having . 
I would like to assure you that the Commission is not shying away from the problems . 
Member of the Commission . - Dear colleagues , I am pleased to report that both parts of the European Progress Microfinance Facility - the guarantees part and the cash products part - are now entirely operational . 
Only three months after the entry into force of the decision , the Commission finalised the mandate for the European Investment Fund to launch the guarantee operations for microfinance providers . 
I am also pleased to report that the Commission has been successful in securing additional funding for micro-entrepreneurs in Europe . 
The European Investment Bank will match the European Union 's contribution of EUR 100 million , and further contributors are expected . 
As a result , the overall volume of loans under the Progress Microfinance Facility will amount , as planned , to around EUR 500 million . 
This money will benefit unemployed people , people facing social exclusion or vulnerable persons who face difficulties in accessing the conventional credit market . 
Ensuring outreach to these target groups and promoting geographical balance are key elements of the mandate given by the Commission to the European Investment Fund . 
Operations approved so far , or under preparation , suggest that both objectives will be met . 
The EIF has announced that the operations being prepared will also be balanced in terms of geographical coverage . 
About 40 % are expected to involve intermediaries investing in Europe and about 60 % in Central and Eastern Europe . 
It is well known that microfinance is most effective if business starters and micro-enterprises are accompanied through business support services . 
As such , the Commission will undertake measures to support European Social Fund managing authorities and intermediate bodies to step up the promotion of self-employment and micro-enterprises . 
For the current ESF programming period , the Member States have earmarked more than EUR 2.7 billion to promote entrepreneurship . 
Entrepreneurs can also be supported through interest rebates . 
However , whether or not interest rebates are subsidised through the ESF is a decision to be taken by the individual Member States . 
At present , only one Member State , namely Lithuania , has indicated that it makes use of this possibility . 
Lastly , the Commission will promote information about the Progress Microfinance Facility . 
The microfinance providers who are closest to the target beneficiaries will provide information on the availability of micro-loans . 
The Commission will make use of existing networks of public employment services , ESF managing authorities and NGOs , to provide information on the progress of the Microfinance Facility . 
Last but not least , the Youth on the Move campaign will pay special attention to opportunities for young people from different backgrounds to start up their own businesses and receive micro-loans . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , we witnessed in Tunisia the rising of the people against an oppressive and abusive regime which has denied them basic human rights for years . 
It is a big source of shame for the EU that for many years , we have been supportive of this dictatorship . 
To make things even worse , the EU risks committing the same mistakes in Tunisia 's neighbouring country , Libya . 
If the Commission and the Council do not change course , it will continue to prop up yet another dictator in the region in the name of stability and border control and migration . 
For years , the Gaddafi regime , one of Ben Ali 's best friends as we have seen recently again , has been systematically violating the human rights of its citizens and especially of migrant workers . 
Nevertheless , the EU and several of its Member States have increasingly close relations with Libya , and the EU is now even negotiating this framework agreement . 
I therefore urge the Council and Commission to notice the writing on the wall and ensure the following conditions are fully satisfied before we can conclude any agreement with Libya : 
First of all , Libya needs to ratify and implement the UN refugee convention and grant the UNCHR full access to the country ; secondly , it needs to guarantee adequate protection and rights for migrants and adopt asylum legislation including the principle of non-refoulement ; thirdly , no readmission agreement with Libya can be concluded until the high risk of inhuman and degrading treatment faced by migrants in Libya has ceased to exist . 
And , on that matter , because I do not think this will come too soon , I really wish the Commission to fail in the negotiations on the readmission agreement . 
Furthermore , Parliament needs to be fully informed at all stages of the negotiation process . 
The Greens strongly object to any dirty deal with a dictator like Gaddafi on the back of migrants and Libyan citizens . 
Continued EU support for this oppressive regime is neither in line with the EU 's values and legal commitments , nor does it serve its long-term interests in the region . 
As we have so vividly seen now in Tunisia , only a democratic and free country will be truly stable and prosperous . 
Let us make sure the EU does not commit the same mistake twice . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Madam President , I would like to address a few points . 
First of all I want to raise the issue of flexibility of financing instruments in the external area . 
Over the last few weeks and months we have all seen a lot of unforeseen catastrophes and events unfolding , and under the external heading we have almost no more margins left , while there are still a few years to go . 
At the same time there is one instrument which is flexible , namely the Stability Instrument , which is then often used for other purposes than it was actually created for . 
So I think we can agree that we need more flexibility in the foreign policy instruments , but we must underline that this can only go with enhanced democratic scrutiny at the same time . 
We are currently fighting on this issue , and we also need to signal that , while for the future of the financial instruments there needs to be more flexibility , we can not go ahead with that without the enhanced democratic scrutiny that we ask for . 
Second point : we have to rethink how we do our work and provide our aid in fragile states . 
Just yesterday the UN made once again the link between development and conflict , and pointed out that those countries that are in conflict are , of course , those that have the hardest time getting out of poverty . 
So far the EU instruments have not really been adapted . 
Last point , quickly , the events in North Africa have shown us the importance of human rights and democracy promotion , and for me also gender equality , and we need to be more daring in this regard in the future when revising the structures . 
in writing . - This regulation is a step in the right direction as it creates an EU set of rights for bus passengers . 
We also oppose the force majeure clause exempting carriers from the obligation to provide accommodation for passengers in case of cancellations or delays if these are caused by severe weather conditions or major natural disasters , as it can set a precedent for other EU passenger rights legislation . 
Even though this is not a triumph , it is an improvement , especially for travellers with disabilities and reduced mobility . 
We managed to ensure non-discriminatory access conditions , disability-related training for the staff of carriers and terminal authorities who deal directly with passengers and compensation for damage or loss of mobility equipment on all routes , regardless of distance . 
Keeping that in mind , and with a view to creating a harmonised EU set of rights for all passengers , we did not oppose the agreement and abstained in the final vote . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , I would like to thank honourable Members for this opportunity to dispel some widely held misunderstandings regarding the Irish programme . 
The S&D Group 's question that gave rise to this statement raises honourable Members ' concern that certain economic policy conditions set out in the Memorandum of Understanding of the Economic Adjustment Programme for Ireland are in legal conflict with Article 153 ( 5 ) of the Treaty . 
That paragraph excludes the adoption of provisions in the field of pay under Article 153 , that is , in the field of social policy . 
However , the Economic Adjustment Programme for Ireland is not a social policy programme and is not adopted under Article 153 . 
It is a financial assistance programme set up , together with the Irish Government , to restore domestic and external confidence and remove the harmful feedback loops between the fiscal and financial crisis . 
Therefore , it is grounded in Article 122 ( 2 ) of the Treaty , which allows for Union financial assistance if a Member State is seriously threatened with severe difficulties caused by exceptional occurrences beyond its control . 
The role of the MOU is to specify the economic policy conditions that serve as a benchmark for assessing the Irish policy performance during the financial assistance programme . 
The Member State has full ownership of these economic policy conditions and their implementation . 
These conditions are commitments of the Member State that are undertaken by the state itself . 
It is not EU action in the respective fields . 
Indeed , many of the conditions , such as the minimum wage reduction , were already included in the Irish Government 's national recovery plan that was published on 24 November 2010 , before the start of the programme . 
The aim of the conditions relating to labour market policy is to create jobs and to avoid long-term unemployment in Ireland amongst the most vulnerable groups . 
The minimum wage reduction is part of this wider package of measures and needs to be seen together with activation policies and efforts to modernise the benefit system . 
When evaluating the reduction in one of the highest minimum wages in the European Union - it is , for instance , the second highest in the eurozone - and although there was significant wage adjustment in the economy , with the minimum wage , in common with wages in general in Ireland , falling by 3 % in real terms in 2008 , followed by a rise of 0.3 % in 2009 , it should be noted that most of the labour market adjustments took the form of job losses . 
In fact , the minimum wage cut only restored the status quo prevailing before 1 January 2007 , i.e. before the crisis . 
The other condition mentioned in the question is an independent review of sectoral collective bargaining . 
The motivation of the review is to discuss the fairness and efficiency of employment conditions for both employees and employers across sectors . 
I would like to highlight the fact that Ireland has a long-standing tradition of tripartite consultation on economic and social policy and that the successive pacts between the government and the social partners since the 1980s have been widely recognised as major factors in the success of the Irish economy . 
The review is an opportunity for the social partners to voice opinions and shape policy , and its announcement was welcomed as such . 
I am fully confident that the review will be carried out by the Irish Government in a way that recognises the importance of social dialogue , includes all the social partners , and complies with Community law . 
Finally , the conditions in the Memorandum of Understanding with regard to structural reform are not only about the labour market . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , first of all , I would like to thank everybody for their contributions . 
I can promise you that we give serious consideration to each of them . 
Let me first say a few words about the importance and relevance of social dialogue . 
We fully recognise the importance of social dialogue and constructive industrial relations . 
We have continuously engaged with the social partners , both at EU level and in individual countries . 
For instance , Commissioner Rehn personally met with Ireland 's trade union leaders in early November , as did officials from the Commission , the ECB and the IMF when negotiating the programme in late November . 
They will continue to engage on the next mission in April and on subsequent occasions . 
By the way , contrary to some allegations , the Commission did not force Ireland to cut the minimum wage or social expenditure . 
These measures were already presented by the former Irish Government itself in its national recovery plan , together with other fiscal and structural measures aiming at economic stability , growth and job creation . 
The legal basis of the economic policy conditions is Article 3 ( 5 ) of Council Regulation ( EU ) No 407/2010 establishing a European financial stabilisation mechanism and Article 2 ( 2 ) of the Council Implementing Decision 2011/77/EU on granting Union financial assistance to Ireland . 
Once again , both are grounded in Article 122 ( 2 ) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union . 
The mere fact that the Memorandum of Understanding 's specific economic policy conditions touch upon various issues that are linked to social policy does not put into question the legal basis of the act . 
There appears to be no contradiction with Article 152 or Article 153 ( 5 ) . 
Article 152 is a general provision which does not exclude the possible need for specific measures with social consequences . 
Moreover , that provision does not create subjective rights for the social partners . 
Article 153 ( 5 ) is a limit as regards the content of the measures that can be adopted under Article 153 , i.e. social policy . 
Since the MoU is not adopted on the basis of Article 153 , this limit does not apply . 
The provisions of Title 10 , social policy , can not be disregarded . 
They have to be taken into account , but it does not mean that as a consequence of Article 153 ( 5 ) , no measures having an effect on pay can be adopted on the basis of Article 122 . 
The measures adopted on the basis of Article 122 for Ireland do not regulate issues . 
They provide for conditions linked to the granting of Union assistance . 
This is explicitly allowed by Article 122 ( 2 ) . 
Therefore , there is no legal problem as regards the principle of conferral . 
More generally , the issue of economic policy conditions is not about EU competences in the field of social policy or wages . 
The conditions included in the programme cover a wide range of policy areas , and for most of them , the competence lies with the Member State . 
The economic policy conditions of the programme are Member State commitments agreed with the EU and the IMF on the measures that the Member States will undertake in exchange for EU/IMF financing . 
As a final note , the Commission fully acknowledged that any financial assistance programme naturally has social consequences . 
However , the main goal of the specific economic policy conditions attached to such a programme is to avoid much graver social consequences by setting the country back on the path of sustained growth and job creation . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , I wish to thank Parliament for the opportunity to exchange views on disaster prevention , and Mr Ferreira in particular for his continued interest in the subject . 
The disasters of last year were a salutary reminder that the EU and its Member States need to step up work on disaster prevention . 
We need to be ambitious . 
We all know that investing in disaster prevention pays off . 
At the same time , ensuring cost-effective and increased investment in disaster prevention is a challenge . 
We are now assessing the effectiveness of existing EU financing instruments . 
We are also developing a catalogue of prevention measures that would be considered by Member States for EU funding . 
Our objective is to increase the impact of EU funding and to accelerate the implementation of Regional Fund support . 
We are also looking at innovative financing instruments , such as insurance pooling to share risks . 
Effective investments in disaster prevention will help to save lives , limit damages and , ultimately , save money . 
Actions are also under way to improve our knowledge of disasters . 
We have worked with the European Environment Agency on a report assessing the frequency of disasters in Europe and their impact on humans , the economies and ecosystems . 
We also need clear and transparent assessments of the risks we face . 
On 21 December last year , we issued a guidance paper on national risk assessment and mapping to encourage Member States in fostering a comprehensive risk-management culture . 
Developing fully-fledged risk management policies will require the involvement of all actors . 
The increased frequency and intensity of disasters in Europe should also provide further incentives for Member States to invest in preparedness and build up their capacity . 
Besides the prevention elements , it is equally important that Member States , and Europe as a whole , are able to provide the best possible response . 
In October last year , we outlined our policy proposal for a European disaster-response capacity . 
Our objective is to improve the efficiency , the coherence and the visibility of the EU 's response to disasters . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , the Eyjafjallajökull eruption in Iceland in April 2010 had an enormous impact which required the EU to act urgently . 
The Commission is actively engaged in practical work to refine the existing volcanic ash avoidance methodologies in aviation . 
For example , the Commission has launched a specific call under the Seventh Framework Programme called ` Technology support for crisis coordination for the air transport system following major disrupting events ' . 
In parallel , the European Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) is preparing rules for air-worthiness requirements and risk assessment for safe flight in airspace with volcanic contaminants . 
The guiding principles are as follows : first , the airline is responsible for the safety of its operations . 
Before operating in airspace contaminated by volcanic ash , the airline must produce a safety risk assessment and have it accepted by its supervising authority . 
This process must be repeated when important changes occur . 
In dealing with disruptive events such as this , a key element is collaborative decision making between Member States and industry . 
To ensure comprehensive and coordinated actions , the Commission , together with Eurocontrol , established a European Aviation Crisis Coordination Cell , following the Council of Transport Ministers meeting of 4 May 2010 . 
Since its creation , the cell has met on several occasions to develop its structures and procedures . 
To test and verify its timely functionality , this cell will be part of a volcano exercise planned for 13 and 14 April 2011 under the auspices of the UN 's aviation body , the ICAO . 
The volcanic ash crisis highlighted the crucial importance of the Single European Sky . 
The Commission has therefore accelerated its implementation via , for example , the adoption of the SES Performance Scheme and the associated EU-wide performance targets , the adoption of implementing rules for network management functions , the designation of the network manager , the adoption of implementing rules and guidance material for the functional airspace blocks , the nomination of the former MEP , Mr Georg Jarzembowski , as the functional airspace blocks coordinator and the expected finalisation by April 2011 of the extension of the EASA 's competence for safety regulation in the field of air traffic management . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , I would like to thank the honourable Members for their understanding , knowing that I am not familiar with this issue . 
Members , you are right that my colleague , Vice-President Siim Kallas , is doing an excellent job and you will receive written answers to your specific questions where necessary . 
Having said that , I would like to thank you for an interesting debate , particularly as , like you , I was personally affected by events in various ways . 
Therefore , I would like to conclude by stating the following . 
Last year 's volcanic ash crisis clearly highlighted the need for us to work together to find solutions to avoid a repeat of the airspace closures we witnessed . 
That being said - and as was the case in April last year - actions taken in this regard can not diminish the levels of safety that the aviation industry is renowned for around the world . 
Looking specifically at the Eyjafjallajökull event , the concept , aims and objectives of the Single European Sky initiative have once again been highlighted . 
As recognised by the Council of Ministers , there is a need to accelerate its implementation to derive all the benefits of its application . 
It is our intention to revise air passenger rights in 2012 . 
Last but not least , the participation of the industry is essential in order to facilitate a coordinated decision-making process . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , in January , we deplored the murder of the Governor of Punjab , Salman Taseer . 
A few weeks later , these acts of violence continued with the assassination on 2 March 2011 of Mr Shahbaz Bhatti , the Minister for Minorities in the government of Pakistan . 
Vice-President Ashton strongly condemned the murder and expressed deep concern over the climate of intolerance and violence in Pakistan linked to the debate over the controversial blasphemy laws . 
He was one of the few voices left who dared to speak out and knew he was under threat after the murder of Salman Taseer . 
Yet this did not stop him from defending his rights which , after all , are enshrined in the Pakistani constitution . 
Vice-President Ashton has called on the government of Pakistan to take its responsibilities and provide adequate protection for those in official functions or in civil society who are threatened . 
The EU welcomes Prime Minister Jamali 's declaration that the government will do its utmost to bring the culprits to justice . 
Our respect goes to Mr Jamali for attending Mr Bhatti 's funeral . 
The government must now live up to its commitments and bring to justice the perpetrators and instigators of such crimes . 
Mr Bhatti and Mr Taseer were outspoken critics of the blasphemy laws and at the forefront of efforts to amend them . 
However , in the climate prevailing after the Taseer murder , the amendments were withdrawn from parliament . 
The blasphemy laws , which carry the death penalty , are incompatible with the common values we seek to promote in our relations with Pakistan . 
They have also led to miscarriages of justice and discrimination against religious minorities . 
While we strongly support Pakistan 's democratic government and will do what we can to assist it as it seeks to cope with an unprecedented wave of terrorist acts , its members should stand up for the principles they subscribe to . 
Freedom of religion or belief is a universal human right ; freedom of opinion and expression is intrinsically linked to it . 
The Council has just adopted conclusions recalling the commitment of the EU to safeguard these fundamental rights and to step up efforts to promote and protect these rights everywhere and for everyone . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , we are concerned about the worsening situation in Belarus , which unfortunately comes as no surprise . 
The widespread detention and prosecution of civil society activists , including presidential candidates , in the post-election period led us to expect harsh sentences to follow . 
As of today , we already know of four cases where individuals have been sentenced to several years in prison . 
We fear that many more such sentences , involving up to 40 people who now stand accused , will follow in months to come . 
What is more , we have been appalled by reports of the torture and ill-treatment of people detained on political grounds , including ex-presidential candidate Mikhalevich . 
All these despicable events may call for an update of our EU response . 
The situation today is as follows : as you know , the EU reacted to the fraudulent elections of 19 December and to the subsequent repression by putting nearly 160 people on a sanction list . 
This was a very clear and strong message of condemnation to the authorities . 
At the same time , the Commission and the European External Action Service have swiftly designed new dedicated assistance tools to provide urgent support to the victims of repression , their families and civil society , up to an amount of EUR 1.7 million . 
This assistance is being delivered with the initial focus on providing legal assistance and counselling to victims of repression and on support to civil society organisations and civic campaigns . 
We are also finalising a re-orientation of our mid-term assistance to Belarus to increase support to civil society . 
It is now time to reflect on whether an additional response is needed . 
The High Representative issued an immediate condemnation following the first sentence on 18 February , and she recalled that political motives had no place in a legal process . 
The EU also strongly condemned the harsh sentences and torture allegations at the OSCE and is discussing the matter at the UN Human Rights Council . 
Finally , the European Union will discuss whether the latest events call for a further expansion of our existing sanction list to add new names such as those responsible for issuing the latest sentences and leading the recent crackdown . 
The EU stands ready to consider further targeted measures in all areas of cooperation as appropriate . 
Parliament 's resolution will certainly be a useful and timely contribution to our reflections and discussions . 
I thank Members for their attention . 
Member of the Commission . - Mr President , the preservation of cultural heritage is obviously of central importance in ensuring the protection and continuation of a minority 's traditions and way of life . 
Moreover , the destruction of important cultural property has the potential to deal a serious blow , not only to the heritage and archaeological patrimony of the minority concerned , but to cultural heritage in general . 
In this light , the European Union is following with concern the redevelopment of the ancient city of Kashgar in the Xinjiang Autonomous Region of China . 
The significance of Kashgar as a centre of culture for the Uyghur minority in China can not be overstated . 
Kashgar is conceived as being as important as Jerusalem is to Jews , Muslims and Christians . 
The Chinese Government 's 2009 White Paper on Xinjiang stated that restoration of Kashgar is necessary to protect the city from earthquakes or fire . 
This is a laudable aim . 
Civil society , both in China and internationally , has expressed considerable disquiet about the methods employed . 
There is serious concern that as much as 85 % of the old city may be demolished . 
Indeed , many notable buildings , including the unique Xanliq madrasah , appear to have been destroyed already . 
It is also worrying that some 200 000 people may be displaced from their traditional homes and that there appears to have been little or no consultation with the residents affected . 
It is feared that the demolition of structures which have formed the basis of Uyghur culture for many hundreds of years may have a grave impact on the preservation of their culture in the years ahead . 
It is also regrettable that China has chosen not to propose Kashgar as a world heritage site despite its unique status , as this would allow UNESCO to become involved in the process of redevelopment . 
We understand that UNESCO has , in any event , made representations to the Chinese authorities concerning the impact of the development on Kashgar 's traditional heritage and culture . 
The European Union fully shares these concerns and will call on the Chinese authorities to work with UNESCO to ensure that any redevelopment of Kashgar meets international best practice in this field . 
The European Union will also call on the Chinese authorities to ensure that the inhabitants of Kashgar are fully consulted about the future of the city and that their views are taken into account . 
In view of the strict limit on speaking time , I do not wish to go into these points at greater length ; instead , I should like to deal with the final point made by Mr Wynn , that because of the problem with the Cultural Foundation , we should not grant a discharge in respect of the financial administration of the European Development Fund . 
This problem with the Cultural Foundation is a scandal , but it is already two years old . 
We in Parliament have brought the scandal to light , and set the wheels in motion to have it discussed . 
If we do not grant this discharge , we may spark off a fresh debate about Lomé IV and financing . 
We have just been involved in major controversy with the Council about these issues . 
I find a great deal to criticize in Lomé IV too , but we are talking here about the only forum for North-South dialogue . 
It might then be possible to resolve scandals and problems such as these by other means . 
Mr President , you have said the we have just one hour . 
I beg you to present something to the presidency . 
It is intolerable that one of the major rights of Parliament - to ask questions - is not being fulfilled . 
It really is intolerable , what is happening now . 
The present proposal by the Commission is intended to introduce measures to restrict the rape cultivation in question if this figure of 1 million tonnes of soya bean meal equivalents is exceeded . 
Depending on how you calculate it , this quantity is equivalent to a cultivation area of about 1.2 million hectares of rape , a figure which so far has never been reached in the European Union . 
Many by-products can however be used for other purposes . 
For example the meal that arises as a result of rapeseed extraction , also known as rapeseed cake , is an excellent protein concentrate , but can also be used , for example , in alternative energy production , or as a soil improver in arable farming . 
The coefficient for calculating the soya bean meal equivalent of rape meal and sunflower meal currently used by the Commission - though not , as far as I am aware , laid down anywhere in a legally binding form - is too high . 
The reason for this is that the change in the range of oilseed varieties in recent years has resulted in a reduction in the crude protein/fat content . 
Amendment No 2 takes these recent developments into account by setting lower coefficients which are legally binding . 
The coefficients proposed by the EDN are of course better from the mathematical point of view , but in practical terms they are not really enforceable at the present time . 
Nevertheless , we suggest that these coefficients should be reviewed every year and adjusted under the management committee procedure . 
I thank the President-in-Office for his answer . 
But , after all , it is also the Council which is competent for countries outside our European Union and especially for a question which has political connotations . 
My question is simply : has the Council been informed about the changing attitude in Switzerland ? 
It is not the first time this has happened . 
Recently it has happened several times . 
Would it not be useful to inform the Swiss authorities that they should inform their own people that there has been such an agreement made with the Commission ? 
I do not deny that there is a legal requirement . 
By the way , Article 8 says that the Commission has to launch a campaign in conjunction with consumer bodies , the European Parliament , the Member States and the food and retail industries in order to inform consumers about the evaluation and authorization process of food additives . 
We are trying to do that . 
I do not want to start a programme - even if I am obliged to do so and I do not deny the obligation - in a way which wastes taxpayers ' money . 
That is the reason why we looked for advice . 
Therefore the Commission has offered all the parties mentioned here - Member States , food and retail industries and especially consumer organizations - to discuss the outcome of that study and to seek a way to solve the problem . 
I can promise you that we are ready to start at any time but I want to start with something which is reasonable . 
At the beginning of my political career I was an activist because that paid off but at the end of a political career you feel you should do things in a more reasoned way . 
I have no hesitation about organizing such a working conference together with the European Parliament in order to look at the experience in Great Britain . 
I know also from my own experience , thanks to invitations from active Members of Parliament - I did not say Labour Members of Parliament , I said active Members of Parliament - that in Great Britain there is very positive activity in this field . 
So I am more than ready to do that , even before the British elections . 
That is why I ask for your support . 
Mr President , I would also request you to instruct the German authorities to finally recognize European passports because one has , from time to time , great difficulties - including , I am sad to say , even at Munich airport - which is generally the best airport in the world . 
( Laughter ) It would be a good idea to take steps to secure universal recognition so that all these countries recognize the European passport . 
I want to ask you whether you do not agree with me that what we have here in relation to the loi Evin in France is in Europe what we are protesting against over the laws which are blocking trade with Cuba . 
Is the President-in-Office not aware that the opening of the banana market in Europe is going to be a very heavy burden on the small producers in the Canary Islands and other European territories ? 
Is it not important that we should give them as much protection as we can against the tremendous American interests which with their enormous capital and enormous propaganda potential which we have felt , are trying to invade our market to destroy those bananas being produced on European territory ? 
What are we dealing with here ? 
I should like to ask the President-in-Office whether at the conference , which as he said , is going to create such an agency , consideration will also be given to safety inside the aircraft . 
For many years now there has been a decision that you could only take one piece of hand luggage into the aircraft . 
I fly a lot and have noticed that this is not respected by most airlines . 
It is one of the main factors of aircraft insecurity in the event of accidents or difficulties . 
Does he intend to take steps to ensure that this particular problem is included in the negotiations and in the preparations for the agency ? 
Does the President-in-Office share my opinion that of all the Arab countries Tunisia is the most democratic - relatively speaking , of course - and that since it is wedged between Algeria on the one side and Libya on the other , we should take a special view of the situation of a country which is , furthermore , very much threatened by Islamic extremism and by other extremist movements ? 
Would he agree that in this connection it has done a remarkable job in keeping relative freedom for the people and in trying to save the country , so that , rather than giving them too much advice , we should encourage them in the right direction and not give them the feeling that we are criticizing them ? 
That is not so . 
I can confirm what I said as to the dates : we will try our best - provided we get the study in December - to propose to you early next year the necessary amendments to our original draft . 
But the two or three studies you mentioned were exactly the reason why we have asked the EEVC again to incorporate them into their own studies so that we are at the level of the latest scientific findings . 
May I first give you a short piece of advice . 
I have a practical question which is of paramount importance for me . 
Can you not obtain from the Commission or some other body a ruling that passengers should not take two pieces of luggage on board . 
Mr President , as I said , the Commission is awaiting the proposals of the British Government . 
Some measures have been announced but we have received no plans giving detailed and concrete proposals and their financial impact . 
But , as I indicated , we appreciate the seriousness of the situation , so no measure is by definition excluded . 
I have outlined the policy we are following for the time being . 
If it becomes necessary to add a new policy , we will , of course , try to be as helpful as possible . 
That also applies to research measures - as far as I know - I am not an expert in research . 
If there is a need for additional research from the Community side , of course we could do that as well . 
