The report adopted in committee struck a very careful balance between those who wish to move faster to build on the common transport charging framework with concrete measures and those who feel that public opinion is not ready for such a radical rethinking of the way society pays for the use of its transport infrastructure . 
The rapporteur is pleased with the substantial agreement on the fundamental principles contained in the report , namely that the Community is competent to establish a common methodology for calculating transport costs ; that external costs should be included in such evaluations ; that revenue should be directed to reducing environmental damage and encouraging modal shift to less polluting transport alternatives ; that implementation should be governed by subsidiarity ; that the users and polluters pay in proportion to use ; and that exemptions should be made for the less mobile members of society and those living in rural areas . 
For these reasons , whilst I am sympathetic to many of the amendments tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for concrete measures , I can not support them here , since they would jeopardise the consensus on the above principles and can be examined later in the course of the implementation of a charging framework . 
Madam President , as you might have noticed , the Italian Members of the European Parliament on this side of the House have until now avoided intervening on the issues related to Mr Berlusconi 's and Mr Dell ` Utri 's parliamentary immunity . 
The reason is quite obvious . 
The situation in my country is very delicate . 
The question is very complex . 
We are but a few weeks , or even a few days , away from Italian national elections . 
But with due respect to the high functions and duties and role you are discharging , and after listening to all my honourable colleagues , particularly Richard Corbett , and to you , let me say that the situation is perceived outside this House as becoming more unbearable , more unacceptable by the day . 
I am raising my voice therefore not as an Italian politician , but as a European Member of this House , to urge you to put an end to all the ambiguities and delays and specious protocol formalities , and to communicate to all of us , as Mr Corbett has suggested , a precise date , a deadline immediately after May 13 , the national election day in my country , by which we intend to pursue a definite legal and procedural solution of the affair . 
This is a matter that goes far beyond political partisanship , and concerns , or should concern , all members of this House , for it concerns the dignity and functioning of our institution . 
Mr President , we agree with the need to strengthen the Commission 's external service and support Mr Galeote 's evaluation of the Commission 's communication . 
This report is in line with the priority shared by the majority of my group and of Parliament : to improve the European Union 's presence on the international scene . 
We see the development of an external service as an instrument to strengthen the EU 's foreign policy , although of course we still have to educate our national services in some respects . 
Among the most embarrassing experiences I have had as an MEP travelling outside the European Union were those very funny meetings with the ambassadors of Member States where the Union delegate is still seen as an external element or , at best , as a sort of trade or economic attaché . 
We are happy that the Galeote report includes our amendment asking the presidency-in-office to take some responsibility for verifying the willingness of Member States ' embassies to cooperate with the EU delegations and enhance their role for creating a real common European voice . 
An improved Commission external service will bring the greatest benefits if we manage to set up a real common foreign and political service at European level . 
Mr President , I am going to be very brief . 
In the last five years , I have had the impression that whenever we place this dramatic issue , this routine horror of the death penalty on the agenda , the House has been a kind of debating society . 
Everybody expresses their condemnation and their righteous indignation , but when the moment comes to decide what to do about the indifference , the apathy and the determination of some countries to insist on these barbaric institutions , the mood changes because obviously money talks . 
Mercantile relations are very important for everybody , and while it is good to denounce the sin , we need to identify the sinners . 
We have read yesterday and today what happened with the so-called ` suicide ' of 15 women in a concentration camp . 
We passed resolutions in this House two years ago about the trade in human organs transplanted from executed people . 
Now we have to start thinking about , for instance , not voting enthusiastically for giving the Olympic Games to the People 's Republic of China without reservation . 
The same applies to the United States of America . 
That is why I am tabling two amendments to our resolution . 
The intent of this oral amendment is just to clarify any misunderstanding that would justify the invasion by Turkey of Cyprus . 
Mr President , I have an oral amendment to Amendment No 75 . 
After the vote on Amendment No 130 : President . 
Unfortunately Mr Fatuzzo , that means that Amendment No 75 falls . 
Mr President , the truncated speech by Mr Haarder and the much longer statement by Mr Patten give us cause for concern , dismay and alarm , particularly after the British Prime Minister 's warmongering in Sedgefield yesterday . 
It is evident that the unstated assumption by the European authorities - with the remarkable exception of the German Republic - is that war is , by now , a certainty . 
Never mind that there is no scrap of evidence that Iraq possesses weapons of mass destruction , even nuclear weapons , never mind that Mr Blair has again postponed the publication of his own private dossier on the matter . 
There is no doubt that , as with Enron 's creative accounting , the CIA are working on creative evidence . 
Confronted with such an imminent disaster for humankind , the Council and the Commission are taking the wrong - although expected - stand . 
As the French newspaper le Figaro puts it , ` confronted with American intransigence Europe excels again in its inclination to compromise ' . 
Compromise in this case is offered by the figleaf of the United Nations , a figleaf that in this specific case covers much more than has been covered by UNSCOM and UNMOVIC . 
Unfettered , unconditional , intrusive access by United Nations inspectors , let us say Anglo-American inspectors , to every site in Iraq - something which Mr Rumsfeld himself expects to be rejected out of hand by the infamous Baghdad dictator . 
After that only one alternative : war . 
Unfortunately , what we have heard today from Mr Haarder and Commissioner Patten confirms our belief that there is a growing gap between the people of Europe and these governing bodies , a gap which this war will enlarge with deleterious consequences for the future of the Union . 
Mr President , we have to face the facts regarding the USA , the ICC and the European Union . 
The facts are : the total rejection by Washington of the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court ; the postponement by the United Nations Security Council , under United States pressure , of any prosecution by the ICC , first until 1 July 2003 , and then until 2004 or maybe 2005 ; and the bilateral agreement on immunity pursued by the United States with some foreign governments , among them two European governments namely Great Britain and Italy , seeking for a law to protect American forces abroad - a law that would authorise military action anywhere , even in the Netherlands , to liberate any American personnel detained by the ICC . 
Do we need any other proof of the intention of the Bush administration to torpedo the ICC ? 
Nowadays there are American troops in 140 countries throughout the world , in more than half of these countries with permanent bases . 
So we are confronted with a superpower which does not allow any other law but its own , on its military forces or its civilian personnel . 
As Commissioner Patten has just stated , grumbling against the United States is no substitute for a European foreign policy . 
I hope he will agree with me that lamenting , whining and giving in through endless useless transatlantic dialogue on an issue of such gravity is no foreign policy either . 
I think that first of all we must try to understand why North Korea decided to admit that it is producing nuclear weapons . 
What lies behind this declaration ? 
Is it an act aiming at dialogue as some seem to think ? 
Or is it a provocative act , an attempt to blackmail in order to get money in exchange for a behaviour - renouncing nuclear power - that it should adopt in any case ? 
Moreover , yesterday , North Korea reinforced its blackmail through another threat : it will re-start missile testing if it feels the negotiations with Japan are unsatisfactory . 
This is to say that , if North Korea does not obtain millions of dollars in exchange , it will not respect its promises , as it has already demonstrated on many occasions . 
How should we behave towards North Korea now ? 
It seems to me that , above all , we should have sent a clear message - things have changed and nothing will be the same . 
This is why I was against the decision to send a letter to North Korea to reconfirm the invitation for the Parliamentary delegation to come to Brussels this week . 
Maybe we should not have sent it since the invitation was turned down . 
The EU has little influence on North Korea . 
As we heard from Mrs de Palacio , our monetary contribution to KEDO is minimal in comparison with that of other partners . 
I think that the Commissioner was right to say that we must aim to develop cooperation between the actors in the area so as to oblige North Korea to respect international rules , although I doubt this will happen with the current regime still in power . 
The resolution which we are presenting today is built on those premises and is a result of a compromise reached by the major political groups in Parliament . 
I would have preferred it to be tougher on North Korea , but it still represents an acceptable compromise between the need to maintain an open dialogue and the necessity to press Pyongyang into giving up its nuclear and missile programmes . 
I hope that everyone will agree that it would be useful after yesterday 's developments to move an oral amendment strongly condemning the new threat of renewed missile testing . 
Mr President , may we ask what Mr Solana and Mr Patten are doing to translate into action their professed will to avoid war , beyond reassessing the need to disarm the awful Iraqi regime , beyond formally relying on the Security Council to do so or even trusting Mr Powell to testify as an eye witness that Bin Laden has been bedding with Saddam Hussein ? 
The problem is that the decision to bomb Iraq into a morgue unfit for the dead was taken a long time ago on the Potomac . 
People all over the world have understood this and are angry and are mobilising against it . 
It is all very well to say that we must announce the role of the United Nations . 
But , may I ask , who is demeaning that role and proclaiming every day that , with or without the United Nations , war will be unleashed , probably by 6 March 2003 , whatever the Security Council may or may not say ? 
Regarding solid evidence , we do not know for sure if this bloody dictator still has these awful weapons and neither does Dr Blix . 
What the United States is asking from Saddam Hussein , however , is not to prove his innocence but to provide evidence of his own guilt , that is , to put his own neck in the noose to be hanged or be bombed to smithereens . 
If this were a criminal case , it would be thrown out of any court in this world . 
So , to adapt the words of Mr Solana and Mr Patten , there is quite a lot of ambiguity , obfuscation and the undeclared will to follow the warmongering lead of Washington , hoping only that the United Nations will provide the desired fig leaf . 
This , we must say , probably for the last time , is a defining moment for Europe . 
This Union must reclaim the moral and rational initiative and , first of all , save itself from some of its leaders . 
Mr President , as the Commissioner said , because Poland is the largest accession country , it obviously has the most problems and the most serious concerns . 
Would it be fair to say , as many people in Poland say , that in some cases at least part of the problem concerning the integrated administration and control system lies with Brussels delaying the spending on the final requirements for the system ? 
Would it be fair to say that ? 
Mr President , the report 's title is misleading . 
I would like to say to colleagues that one of the amendments to be voted in relation to the Corbett report proposes a rule that makes it very hard to set up temporary committees . 
This applies to the second vote , so be careful what you do , colleagues . 
I know it is very late , but please take into account that this will mean that good work such as that carried out in this Parliament on the issue would not be possible if we were to adopt this amendment . 
Mr President , we did not ask for this debate simply in order to tell the World Bank what it should do . 
We also need to know the position of the Council , in which 15 Member States -- all playing a very important role in World Bank decision-making -- are represented . 
We want to ask the Council what position it is going to take on this extractive industry report and whether or not it intends to coordinate the position of the Member States in this respect . 
In the Mr Roche 's interesting remarks I did not hear the answer to this question ; the very reason we asked for this debate . 
We are convinced that we must have parliamentary scrutiny of what the World Bank does , and also that we , as a European Union institution , need to know what our Member States do when they are in the World Bank . 
So the World Bank is not something outside this institution or outside your institution , Mr Roche . 
Mr Vitorino said very clearly that he thought , and that the Commission thought , that the most important recommendation had to be supported . 
I repeat : I would like to know what the position of the Council is , if any , and if there is any intention of having any kind of discussion on this point . 
We think that discussion of this issue in the Council is absolutely crucial for two reasons . 
Firstly , because the conclusions of the report say very clearly that investing in the oil , mining and gas sectors does not in itself reduce poverty . 
Secondly , we are convinced that if the World Bank 's objective is to reduce poverty and alleviate the exclusion of indigenous populations and poor people , we can not continue to support a method of financing a project that is detrimental from this point of view . 
So please , Mr Roche , tell us what you are going to do . 
Mr President , I also want to thank the presidency , and Mr Roche in particular , for the way in which he has handled our dealings together . 
I also enjoyed it very much . 
I must say that sometimes I find it difficult to attack him because he is so nice and so it is difficult to say how much I disagree with the Irish presidency . 
I thank him very much and it was a pleasure for my Group too to work with the Irish presidency . 
I have very little time so I just want to concentrate on the question of Cyprus . 
We all share the sadness at the disappointing result of the referendum . 
I understand and I respect the response of the Greek Cypriots . 
I want to believe that they want a solution and that they are not happy with the status quo . 
But now it is time for them and for us to act . 
We have to act quickly and positively to ensure that agreement can still be reached this year . 
The Greek Cypriots should tell us their ideas to ensure that enlargement is completed and the rest of the European Union must assist and remind them that this business can not remain unfinished . 
I have two small suggestions . 
The first is for the Commission and the Council . 
To say that EUR 289 million have been earmarked is quite good , but how much time elapses between earmarking and spending ? 
I became very worried when I heard Commissioner Nielson talking about legal problems and complications . 
Could the Commission and the Council give us a timetable for committing this money and solving the European Union 's formal problems with northern Cyprus ? 
The Government of the Republic of Cyprus has a problem with the implementation of the law governing the European elections in Cyprus . 
In order to be able to vote , Greek Cypriots , Turkish Cypriots , Latin Maronites and Armenians have to be registered on the electoral roll for the European elections . 
Unfortunately , the Cypriot Parliament took a decision requiring all Cypriots to register themselves on the electoral roll . 
As a result of this procedure , only 503 out of an estimated 80 000 Turkish Cypriots are eligible to vote . 
This is too few . 
If the Cypriot Parliament decided to include on the electoral roll all persons who have either an ID card or a passport issued by the Republic of Cyprus , 40 000 Turkish Cypriots could vote . 
I have two requests to the Government of Cyprus . 
Firstly , people from both communities who are in possession of an ID card or a passport from the Republic of Cyprus should automatically be entitled to vote . 
Secondly , the Government of Cyprus should re-open the electoral roll over the next three weeks and make a public announcement in both communities and in both languages to ensure that those able to vote in the European elections do so . 
My oral amendment to paragraph 1a is as follows : ` Requests the Georgian Government to define its commitment , which appears to be a precondition for achieving a peaceful solution of conflicts and national unification based on consent , towards the autonomy of Abkhazia and South Ossetia . ' 
I have an oral amendment to Amendment 5 to add , after ` business and industry ' , ` e.g. by involving the technology platforms ' . 
We therefore support the concept of extending the SPC , but question the Commission proposal for an automatic six-month extension . 
We feel a variable length SPC extension would have been better and fairer , because the amount of incentive would better have reflected the costs of research . 
Of the options on the table , we therefore supported the three - plus three-month extension . 
We did not , however , support the option of a fixed four - or five - month SPC extension , because this risks being unfair to smaller companies . 
Mr President , I would like to remind Members of certain fundamental mistakes made by many people during the Iraq affair when assessing the intentions of Saddam 's regime regarding weapons of mass destruction . 
Intelligence , then and today , is largely inconclusive , if not misleading . 
It is based largely on inferences and is often lacking in hard data . 
The best intelligence agencies today do not have a single reliable source in Iran capable of providing information on Tehran 's intentions and capabilities . 
While it may not be perfect , the IAEA is the only means of monitoring any nuclear programme in Iran . 
Between 1991 and 1998 , and despite Saddam 's best efforts from 1992 onwards , the IAEA could not declare Iraq free of weapons of mass destruction . 
So let us avoid making further costly mistakes based on confusing mistrust with well-founded suspicion . 
This is what warmongering politicians are trying to instil in our minds , and it is simply illogical . 
One of the lessons we should learn from the Iraq nuclear case is very simple : it was the bombing of the Osirak reactor in 1981 that led Saddam to decide to have a serious nuclear programme . 
I can easily imagine what disasters could result from a so-called ` surgical strike ' of this kind today . 
This also means that our American friends must change the political paradigm with Iran , acknowledging that their past approaches have been ineffective and that they need to adopt a more collaborative policy in order to safeguard everybody 's interests in this crucial part of the world . 
Mercury is a highly toxic substance which must be subject to strict controls . 
However , we believe that bans/restrictions must only be introduced after dialogue with interested parties and after a thorough impact assessment of the consequences , with industry being given sufficient lead time to adapt to change . 
. Labour MEPs welcome today 's agreement on nutrition and health labelling of foods . 
We accept that this is a compromise package and there are some elements , particularly on Amendment 66 , where we have reservations . 
We would have preferred the common position text , which allowed no derogations . 
However , the new law represents a major step forward in food labelling for consumers and improves the overall regulatory framework . 
It is on this basis that we supported the compromise package . 
I should like to amend the title before paragraph 6 . 
Instead of ` most of which are alleged ' , it should read ` some of which are alleged ' . 
There was a linguistic mistake in the original version . 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Mr President , I think the case for this legislation is compelling . 
Mercury is extremely toxic . 
It is bioaccumulative and persistent in the environment and there is no safe exposure level . 
I ask the PPE-DE Group to think again . 
To Mr Callanan and the Conservatives I say that at your party conference your leader said that you want to replace dangerous chemicals with safe ones . 
The Tory Party website says that you are going to do that . 
You have to vote to change things and not just say you are going to do so . 
I hope that the PPE-DE Group will support this very sensible measure to phase out an extremely dangerous chemical from our environment . 
We have given a two-year extension to companies to phase out their production . 
That is not what the Council wanted , but we have 25 governments here , experts from 25 countries , the European Commission and the majority of political groups , and I hope that the House will support the report and be consistent with the principle of substitution of dangerous chemicals . 
Mercury is extremely toxic , bioaccumulative and persistent in the environment . 
That is why Labour MEPs agree with the 25 EU governments and the Commission that mercury should be phased out in all but essential uses . 
We are opposed to a permanent exemption for mercury barometers because substitutes are available , but we proposed and will support a longer , two-year phase-out period for mercury barometers to allow industry to adapt to the new law . 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Mr President , Commissioner , you know from our discussion in committee that this issue is extremely important for myself and for the PSE Group . 
We feel that any initiative you take on cross-border healthcare should be built on these principles . 
Mr Bowis talked about the legal certainty that is needed in a range of areas . 
These are the questions that people write and ask me about . 
Finally , Commissioner , you said that you recognised that healthcare has a special character . 
The health ministers agreed a set of values and principles in June last year , and I wonder whether you will be taking that on board when you draw up your proposals later this year ? 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Mr President , the Socialist Group will be supporting the trialogue compromise and all its elements , as outlined by the rapporteur , Mr Schnellhardt . 
I should like to thank him for all his hard work and , like Mr Titley , his patience , because this has become a very complex dossier and one on which emotions have started to run high . 
We are supporting this compromise because we want the European drinks industry to have high-quality products for consumers and we want to protect our industry on the world markets . 
What we do not want to do with this legislation is to give one country 's type of production an advantage over another country 's type of production . 
That is not the aim of the legislation . 
There is room for all European producers , as long as they meet high quality standards . 
Because , as Mr Schnellhardt has said , for the first time it recognises that there is a special place for traditional manufacturers using cereals and potatoes . 
But , at the same time , it allows other long-standing producers of vodka to continue to market their products on the European market - and they will be labelled . 
Everybody has to work in a spirit of compromise and what we have got on the table has something for everybody . 
We have also got to work with facts . 
It is simply not true that the compromise on vodka would allow you to make vodka , for example , from animal waste , as has been circulated again in this House today . 
I want to say something to the British Conservatives about vodka . 
I understand from their press release last week they are not supporting the compromise now and they have accused Labour of selling the British vodka industry down the river . 
I have to say that this is vital for European jobs , it is vital for the drinks industry , which employs 60 000 people , and has the support of British industry as well as European vodka producers and other drinks manufacturers . 
I can see surprise from some Members . 
I hope we will have this clarified because I have the press release here . 
Finally , it is not just about vodka , it is about high-quality drinks . 
Many colleagues from different countries have come to Mr Schnellhardt , myself and other colleagues and asked for certain changes because of their traditional production . 
All those things have been met . 
The Council and the Commission have been very helpful and I very much hope that tomorrow , after , as Mr Titley has said , 18 years have passed since we started trying to get this legislation on the statute book , we just go ahead and do it and protect European jobs . 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Mr President , my first thanks go to Mr Trakatellis for his excellent work on getting agreement today on a package of amendments on the public health programme . 
It has not been easy : we have had lots of meetings over the course of the last few months , but we finally have a package that the Socialist Group welcomes . 
We want to see better use made of the centres of reference across Europe and we are also pleased that NGOs and patients ' organisations will have better access to funding thanks to this programme that will see emphasis placed on the wider environmental determinants of heath . 
We all know that health suffers because of environmental issues and we want to see that tackled . 
I want to draw your attention to Amendment 19 , which the Socialist Group has tabled separately from the package . 
In recital 14 we talk about increasing healthy life years , and we want to delete the words ` also called disability-free life expectancy indicator ' . 
We have had many approaches from disability organisations , which make the point that you can have a disability and be healthy and that , therefore , this terminology seems to suggest that if you are a disabled person you are automatically somebody who is unhealthy . 
Therefore , we would like the Commission and the Council to look at that when they look at the final wording for the document . 
Finally , I want to put on record my thanks as well to the German Presidency negotiating team who helped us to reach agreement today and took on board so many of our parliamentary amendments from first reading . 
I look forward to getting the programme up and running on time next year . 
That is what everybody wants at this stage and that is why we have been prepared to compromise on the budget , but we are very pleased with the content . 
on behalf of the PSE Group . - Mr President , I am replacing Mr Titley , the leader of the Labour MEPs , tonight , but I can speak on behalf of all those MEPs in welcoming this amending budget and the decision to grant EUR 162 million to the UK regions affected by flooding . 
As Mr Ashworth has said , it is a small grant towards covering the huge costs of the damage done by the floods in the UK , but we are appreciative to our colleagues in the Committee on Budgets , who voted unanimously , and also to the Commission . 
I understand it was the quickest payment ever made : within seven months . 
Therefore , although many people have been suffering for a long time , it is progress compared with previous funds . 
We also understand that it is one of the largest payments ever made , and we are appreciative of that . 
Last year 's floods affected 48 000 UK homes and 700 businesses and the total damage is estimated at over EUR 4 billion . 
I am replacing Mr Titley as he is stuck in London because of the very severe storms that are battering western Europe this evening . 
We can not attribute all bad weather to climate change , but we do know that the number of extreme weather events is increasing . 
We have seen severe floods , and also the fires in Greece and southern Europe last summer , and no amount of solidarity funds can actually meet the damage and the cost which we are seeing as a result of these climate-change events . 
We are beginning our work as MEPs on the new package of climate change legislation . 
I very much hope this House will adopt a tough stance and implement and agree good legislation which really does tackle climate change so that we do not have to come back here and ask the Commission for money to tackle these kinds of events . 
in writing . - This report criticises the human rights situation in China , but it might also have mentioned the human rights situation in Taiwan , which is exemplary . 
Taiwan 's prosperous democracy , strengthened by constitutional protections and the rule of law , stands in stark contrast to the totalitarian communist dictatorship in China 
I therefore voted to approve this report . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , like Mr Tatarella , I would like to begin by thanking the people closely involved with helping us reach first-reading agreement today on the EMAS report . 
I would like to thank the shadows , who are here today , the Commission , who have been very helpful in getting agreement , and to the Czech Presidency , who are not here to hear my thanks . 
Thanks also go to the staff in Parliament and the groups , and to my own assistant , Elizabeth , who played a big role in making sure we were here today . 
It all went very fast , from the time we started discussing it to today , so we now have agreement before the election . 
EMAS is a voluntary scheme , which provides a framework to assist businesses and organisations to improve their environmental performance . 
I think it is right that we should try and improve the take-up of EMAS , because otherwise its impact is going to remain limited . 
But if we are to increase the impact , we also have to retain the environmental integrity of the programme . 
I think the agreement we reached today does achieve that balance between , hopefully , making it more attractive to people , while at the same time retaining the environmental integrity . 
We have made some changes which we have agreed with the Commission , and I think they are important . 
Firstly , corporate registration , so that a company or organisation with more than one site can actually register once in one country , which is very important . 
So that kind of change is important . 
Also , cluster registration for organisations involved in the same sector ; reduced fees , and lighter reporting requirements for SMEs - I think EMAS is a bit too burdensome for small organisations , so it does need to change - and better alignment with ISO 14001 . 
Particularly important to me is the introduction of sectoral support documents . 
I think the Commission is going to work very hard at this , and this will help organisations to benchmark themselves against similar organisations . 
I do hope these will encourage people to take part in EMAS , not because I want to play a numbers game and see EMAS competing with ISO , but because I think the scheme is a good one and could help us to meet our sustainability criteria . 
Today the eyes of the world are very much on London , where world leaders are gathered to talk about the financial downturn and the global banking crisis . 
But I think that is wrong . 
For me and my Socialist colleagues , the green agenda is very much part of the solution to emerging from the financial crisis that we are in . 
We need to invest in energy and renewables , and we need to be cutting our environmental footprint . 
Although EMAS is a very modest programme in the big scheme about climate change which the Commissioner has worked so hard on , I think it nevertheless plays a role in helping the European Union and the rest of the world to cut our environmental footprint . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Madam President , we are here to deal with the EU plan of action for Afghanistan and Pakistan . 
The Committee on Foreign Affairs of this Parliament has given me the opportunity to be the rapporteur on a new strategy for Afghanistan . 
We need a new strategy - or maybe we just need any strategy at all - on the civilian side because , until now , the EU intervention in that country has not had enough coherence and seems to have had a very limited impact . 
I am afraid , Mrs Ashton , that I can not share your initial statement on Afghanistan because it is too generic , too bureaucratic , too unfocused - like the current action plan . 
I believe Parliament must contribute to making this strategy stronger and more coherent . 
I am putting together all the necessary bits of information . 
First of all , I have to say that it is turning out to be very difficult to get even the most basic data on how much was spent by the EU in Afghanistan after the 2001 occupation , where the EU aid arrived and how much of it can be accounted for . 
We know that almost EUR 1 billion is spent every year there , which is a big sum . 
The Afghan GDP is just EUR 6.9 billion . 
Our civilian aid therefore amounts to more than 20 percent of the yearly Afghan GDP , a figure that has the potential to reverse the destiny of the country if properly used . 
Secondly , my attempt to draw a new strategy for Afghanistan will start with an effort to identify what has been , and what should be , the EU interest in the area . 
I will focus part of my report on the elimination of the opium poppy through the alternative development strategy . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , our thoughts today are with the people of Haiti in their tragedy , and I am sure all Members will want to send their condolences to the people of Haiti . 
It is a tragedy but , as Gay Mitchell has said , it is a tragedy in a country where 75 % of people already live below the poverty line . 
As we look to the future , that is something we really need to be looking at . 
The public has responded magnificently to the challenge of helping Haiti . 
High Representative , I want to thank you for the work you have done in pulling together a quick EU response on this matter . 
We learned at the time of the tsunami that , in fact , good coordination is as important as the actual funds we put on the ground . 
It is not about which flag goes on the aid , it is about getting the aid out there , working with the United Nations to get it delivered . 
Looking to the longer term , I am pleased that there will be an international conference on Haiti . 
I think we need to look at the whole issue of Haiti , about its outstanding debt , and I hope the debt problems of Haiti will be on the agenda at the international conference . 
Haiti owes USD 890 million to the international creditors and a large part of that is to the IMF . 
The IMF has given Haiti a USD 100 million loan . 
Can we convert that into a grant ? 
I hope as well that we will address other issues , and I think you are right that the issue of the border with the Dominican Republic is equally important . 
So , thank you once again for your efforts , and I hope the whole House will work hard to find a good coordinated effort . 
on behalf of the S&D Group . - Mr President , can I start by thanking Mrs de Brún , who took on this dossier expecting it to be fairly expeditious . 
Commissioner , one of your first tasks here is to find a solution . 
A lot of the debate has been about the technical aspects of this legislation , but it is an important piece of legislation for lots of citizens , being about moving their pet freely around the EU . 
When we first adopted this legislation a few years ago , there was a lot of support for it , but we have this transitional period , which Mr Fjellner has mentioned , which is important to prevent diseases spreading to states that do not have those diseases . 
I welcome the Commission 's support for extending the transitional period so that , when we do have the new legislation , all countries will have the same legislation . 
We will , by that point , have much higher levels of animal health and animal welfare across the EU . 
On the comitology issue , our group supports the compromise that has been negotiated . 
We think that Parliament should have parity - equality - with the Council in legislation . 
The whole issue was about the expert groups and who these experts should be . 
What we would like to say is that when we talk about experts being consulted , this has to refer to all experts , and the Commission will be looking with experts from the Member States , from non-governmental organisations , and also those perhaps which the European Parliament is recommending . 
in writing . - Firstly , I would like to thank Mr Szájer for the outstanding work delivered in so little time . 
The delegated acts will be of paramount importance for Union law and the interinstitutional balance in the EU . 
Therefore , it is fundamental that they are developed and decided upon in a fully transparent manner which effectively enables the Parliament and the Council to democratically control the exercise of the power delegated to the Commission . 
To this extent , as advocated by the Szájer report , some issues will be of utmost importance and require our stronger commitment . 
These include , inter alia , the possibility for the European Parliament to revoke the delegation at any time and to make sure that Parliament and Council are conferred the same rights concerning their involvement in the process of delegation . 
Finally , I would like to stress that it should be a priority for the Commission to present all legislative proposals needed to adapt the acquis to the provisions of Articles 290 and 291 , including the acquis in policy areas which , pursuant to the Lisbon Treaty , are now subject to the codecision procedure . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , the report that we considered today has been approved virtually unanimously by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of this Parliament . 
It is the result of one year 's work by a team which I led and is based on extensive consultations in Kabul and Brussels . 
This report is an attempt to explain a paradox : why has so little been achieved in Afghanistan , in spite of nine years of international involvement ? 
Since 2001 , military operations inside that country have cost more than EUR 300 billion and several thousand human lives , and at least another EUR 40 billion have been spent on the civilian side : in total , more than 30 times the current Afghan GDP . 
In spite of this huge effort , Afghanistan is still the number one producer of narcotic drugs . 
It is still one of the poorest countries in the world , where - for the majority of the Afghan population - life is short , brutal and nasty , as it was in our continent five centuries ago . 
There are more victims of maternal mortality alone in Afghanistan than the war : over 20 000 a year as against 2 300 . 
The answer to this paradox is not simple . 
The opium problem and the strength of the insurgency must be taken into account , along with the belief in the illusion of a quick military victory , which dominated the early years of the international presence . 
Moreover , the legitimacy of the central government has been overestimated , as has the efficiency of international aid in the reconstruction of the country . 
Today 's EU is built on an aversion to war , and this report reflects this feeling . 
On the specific issue of Afghanistan , EU citizens strongly support a civilian approach as an alternative to the use of force . 
Our approach is not naive ; it is not , as has been said , Venus 's softness against Mars 's strength . 
It is instead the power of reason , of human solidarity , applied to a crisis like the Afghan one that can not be approached with a simplistic solution and mentality . 
This report proposes a strategy that does not exclude the limited use of coercive means . 
The security of the people of Afghanistan from terrorists and criminal attacks is a prerequisite for development , and this Parliament believes that the combination of peace-keeping interventions , multilateral diplomacy , domestic peace negotiations , effective poverty reduction measures , the establishment of democratic institutions and the protection of women 's rights are the pillars of a new , winning strategy in Afghanistan as elsewhere . 
I hope that the strategy which is outlined here will be implemented carefully by the new system , and I take this opportunity to invite Baroness Ashton to join Parliament in this endeavour . 
in writing . - My statement aims to justify my abstention on the resolution on Turkey . 
I abstained because I did not agree with its lack of positive inspiration and its lack of a clear appreciation of some key features of the Turkish Government 's recent action . 
In this resolution , there is too much of a paternalistic attitude towards a great country that does not deserve this treatment . 
There are too many demands on Turkey , with too many details and too many unrealistic standards to be met . 
If these standards were applied to the EU Member States , several of them would not qualify for EU accession . 
I hope this attitude towards Turkey will change over time , and I hope this Parliament will show a stronger commitment to the goal of having Turkey in the EU soon . 
in writing . - I voted against this report because of its several flaws , starting with its approach to the nuclear issue . 
After the Japanese tragedy , it is no longer possible to deal with the nuclear argument solely in terms of safety . 
The title of the report is ` on the lessons to be drawn for nuclear safety in Europe following the nuclear accident in Japan ' , but there is no special lesson to be drawn except that confirming the practical impossibility of controlling both the risks and consequences of a major nuclear accident . 
A resolution on this subject can not be centred around the issue of nuclear safety without addressing the most important nuclear safeguard , which is an exit strategy from nuclear energy itself . 
in writing . - I voted against the joint motion on the Fourth United Nations conference on least developed countries because the motion is not focused enough on the problem of international aid ineffectiveness . 
The motion , and the statement by the Commission during the parliamentary debate , ignore the current critical discussion on the last 50 years of international aid to the countries of the global South , and ignore the lessons to be drawn by past failures and successes . 
Why the monumental failure of the aid to Africa ? 
Why the monumental failure of the World Bank policies on development and poverty reduction ? 
Why the huge scandal of foreign aid delivery to Afghanistan during the last 10 years ? 
Why the huge success of the poverty elimination policies in China , Vietnam and Brazil ? 
If we are not able to answer these difficult questions , we will never be able to use the EUR 60 billion in development aid for the benefit of the least developed countries . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this motion to wind up the debate on statements by the European Council and the Commission on the 2010 progress report on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( FYROM ) . 
The motion also congratulates the country on the anniversary of the Ohrid Agreement , which remains the cornerstone of its inter-ethnic relations , and calls on the government to foster a comprehensive dialogue between the ethnic communities . 
I also appreciated the positive evaluation in the motion on FYROM 's continuous efforts to stabilise the region . 
Vice-President of the Commission . - Mr President , rather than a technical debate , I think this is more of a policy debate within the context of decisions made by the institutions of the European Union - in this case Parliament , the Commission and the Council - to boost the real economy . 
The European Commission and the Commissioner for Industry and Entrepreneurship intend to carry on supporting industrial policy and small and medium-sized enterprises , partly so as to provide answers to our citizens on the issue of the quality of the products made by our businesses . 
The competitiveness of the European economy is also measured in terms of product quality as a factor in the protection of the health of our fellow citizens . 
That is why this evening , at the end of this debate , the European Commission is renewing its desire to press ahead with origin labelling . 
As I already announced - and in order to reassure Mr Cancian and all the other honourable Members who have voiced concern about the overly long timescales - I can confirm that we will try to present our work ahead of schedule . 
In this regard , I confirm that I have authorised my staff to continue down our chosen path , because the Commission has always supported origin labelling both for products made in the European Union and for those that are imported . 
This evening 's debate has certainly not been fruitless , because Mrs Győri clearly stated that the Council sets great store by the clause we are discussing - which is the key to today 's policy debate - and that it is ready to reach a forward-looking rather than a backward-looking agreement with the Commission and Parliament in order to provide our citizens with real answers . 
I continue to believe that the traceability issue affects the competitiveness of SMEs and - just as my top priority since being appointed as a European Commissioner has been SME policy , so continuing the work of my predecessor - I intend to continue protecting the health of consumers through quality products which will be the only competitive ones on the international market , because the competitiveness of European Union products is measured in terms of quality . 
That is why I think it is important to continue working in this direction . 
I am satisfied with the agreement reached between the co-legislators . 
Before concluding , I should like to mention our commitment to supporting innovation in the textile and clothing sector . 
Adjusting legislation is one way of defending our competitiveness , but there are other industrial policy initiatives in the works as well . 
We are also preparing a communication on the fundamental aspects of competitiveness in the fashion industry . 
All of this goes towards underlining the need to protect European businesses and the fact that there can be no growth and development , and above all no jobs , in a social and market economy situation in which the market - which is also a fundamental instrument of our European Union - does not pursue a higher and more important goal , namely social policy . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , the oral amendment reads as follows . 
The original text recognised that ` NATO constitutes the foundation of collective defence for those Member States which belong to it ' and here is the addition , ` and reaches beyond its Member States ' . 
A few weeks ago , I met a representative of the US Food and Drug Administration . 
She was telling me about the problems of E coli in fruit and vegetables in the United States and we discussed how this was not common in the European Union . 
Is it about intensive farming , hot-housing fruit and vegetables ? 
Is it about overuse of antibiotics in livestock ? 
Is it about manure spreading ? 
Would more accurate food labelling have helped us to identify more quickly the source of the contamination ? 
I note that the Council is not here today , but the Council is resisting proper country of origin labelling on our foods . 
I hope they will listen to this debate in the future . 
So , Commissioner , we need to investigate thoroughly for the longer term and we need to learn lessons and integrate them into our policies . 
Too often , we hear from this Commission and from many in this House about over-regulation , but , as with the banks , I am starting to wonder whether we tend to put the needs of market and supply chains ahead of those of public protection and the consumer . 
Today 's vote comes after a relevant success for the EU in the UN : the adoption of a set of modalities granting the EU delegation in the UN General Assembly the right to make interventions , as well as the right of reply and the ability to present oral proposals and amendments . 
These improvements reflect a clear reality : The EU and its Member States are the biggest financial contributors to the UN system , with EU funds amounting to 38 % of the UN regular budget , more than two fifths of UN peacekeeping operations and close to half of the contributions to the UN funds and programmes . 
Moreover , the EU , in spite of all its limitations , is a major global actor whose weight must be properly recognised at every level . 
in writing . - The report on the external dimension of social policy relates to a priority for the EU social policies . 
It calls for the strengthening of the core labour standards embedded in the ILO conventions , including freedom of association and collective bargaining , elimination of forced and compulsory labour , elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation , and the abolition of child labour . 
I voted in favour of this report because it also calls for a change in governance , globally and in the EU , in order to better implement workers ' rights and working conditions . 
I appreciated the method followed by the rapporteur in evaluating the outcome and modalities of the EU cooperation for development . 
The rapporteur clearly states that , in spite of the constructiveness of the dialogue with the Commission , the Commission itself did not change its behaviour in development matters as Parliament recommended . 
Parliament 's position was only sporadically reflected in the draft implementing measures submitted by the Commission to the DCI management committee . 
But development cooperation is the one policy area of external action ( besides humanitarian aid ) which is not designed to serve EU interests , but to defend the interests of the most vulnerable populations of this planet . 
Since the position expressed in this report fully reflects this global inspiration , I was glad to vote in favour of it . 
Therefore , it can be misleading . 
in writing . - The report on a New Multiannual Financial Framework ( MFF ) for a competitive , sustainable and inclusive Europe is a valuable piece of collective analysis on the future configurations of the EU budget . 
It estimates the financial resources needed for the Union to attain its objectives and carry out its policies for the period starting 1 January 2014 . 
Its essential point is a request for an increase of at least 5 % in the total EU budget for 2013 , and the request for the introduction of an autonomous source of funding . 
The report stresses very clearly that without sufficient additional resources in the post-2013 MFF , the Union will not be able to fulfil the existing policy priorities , linked , in particular , to the Europe 2020 strategy , or the new tasks provided for by the Treaty of Lisbon , let alone respond to unforeseen events . 
I voted in favour of this report also because it calls for a more transparent , simpler and fairer financing system for the European Union . 
In principle I share your concern and also recognize the importance of this issue but it is really the case that , for the moment , this is a responsibility of Member States . 
What we are trying to see is if there is a margin for manoeuvre to allow us to come up with a new proposal which could be justified , and so start the process again . 
But for the moment we are at this stage : we have to see if there is enough background and enough justification for a new proposal that could then possibly encounter fewer difficulties and less resistance . 
I must confirm what I said before . 
I share your concern , and our programme is to see if we can identify some margin of manoeuvre . 
This is also necessary because this form of travel , particularly inside the Union , has very much increased . 
It is very important that we ensure that safety measures are in place so that this process is not stopped , just the contrary . 
It is important that parents feel that their children are protected when they travel in Member States . 
We have also tried to develop a code of conduct , but up to now the results have not been very encouraging . 
That is why we are again looking at the possibility of a directive . 
We started work on a code of conduct , particularly among the Auberges de Jeunesse , but frankly speaking the result was not encouraging . 
It was very timeconsuming trying to persuade them and so on , but at the end of the day the result was not particularly encouraging and so we are back to the other possibility again . 
Another thing which might be possible is to involve consumers ' associations in this issue and perhaps they have some broader documentation which could be helpful in our discussion to try to see what measures we could take to overcome the problem . 
The involvement of both parliamentarians and the Commission services , but also the consumers ' associations would be an important element in a joint discussion . 
In fact , we are already discussing this issue which not only concerns Latvia but also Estonia and others . 
The issue of contracting parties is under discussion . 
As you know , according to the NAFO rule , there has to be consensus . 
As you can imagine - I do not need to tell you the details - this consensus is far away . 
For all the reasons you have mentioned , in addition to all the others , we are already in favour of this request even though consensus is still required and some contracting parties are not so happy . 
Unaccustomed as we are to receive prompt replies - and often we receive no replies at all on violations of human rights and atrocities of all sorts when they are perpetrated by the United States of America - we are relieved indeed by the statement which we have just heard . 
But we can not help noticing that it has reached this House very late and post facto , that is the same day that the taps have been turned on again for a limited oil flow from Iraq in exchange for food and medicines . 
Let us hope the decision by the United Nations Security Council and by Mr Boutros Ghali will bear the desired fruits in the next few months . 
Let us hope that no new intervening factors or new geopolitical considerations will be used as a pretext to stop this minimal humanitarian aid . 
We have heard many figures from the Commissioner and we just wonder why the money provided by Europe has not borne the desired fruits up to now . 
The fact remains and will weigh for ever on our consciences that 4 , 500 Iraqi children have died every month because of our inaction , as Unicef has testified . 
More than 300 , 000 children have been murdered over five years by malnutrition , disease , lack of antibiotics and other medicines because of the United Nations ' sanctions . 
The fact remains that the Commission has for too long tolerated the slaughter of the innocents and we all bear the guilt . 
If we just want to ask what people want to change about the existing common fisheries policy , there is really no point to the use of a methodology such as a questionnaire . 
You can use other tools . 
But if we accept this use of a questionnaire , it has to be as broad as possible and address the questions you are asking : such as regionalization . 
Provided , of course , we understand quite specifically what we mean by regionalization because , as far as I can understand , throughout the fisheries sector the Member States have quite different views on what regionalization is supposed to mean . 
So on this particular issue , one question is not enough . 
The problem is to have broader questions with alternatives that can give us at least a broad idea of what everybody thinks . 
So we want to start in 1997 to give ourselves enough time for a full revision . 
Maybe at the end of the process we will remain with the same common fisheries policy or a slightly different one . 
The name itself means that everything can be called into question . 
The Commission is in favour of having input from this working group , not with binding documents but in an informal consultation . 
In fact , there is no preferential treatment . 
This is contrary to the law of the European Community under which all Member States are equal . 
In the past year we have been making proposals and suggestions to the UK authorities on how to implement the economic link the Court of Justice talked about . 
The Commission will examine the implementation of the economic link in a non-discriminatory and proportionate way once it has received a proposal on criteria from the UK Government . 
But that can not be imposed . 
The UK Government can say to each vessel : in order to get a quota you have to prove that you have an economic link . 
Let me remind Members that , for instance , Denmark has a national law requiring 50 % landings in Danish ports . 
That is one of the possibilities of having an economic link with the flag state . 
Nevertheless , the Commission has only two possibilities . 
If we get more human resources we can intensify the spot checks and in so doing intensify also , if necessary , the infringement procedures . 
However , I must confess to this House that we are late with inspections in other fields which are of enormous importance . 
But with only 27 veterinary inspectors - and I can not clone them , because that is forbidden - we can not do much more . 
I am pleased that we were able to trace all this beef in only one week . 
To avoid any misunderstanding , I just said that we have been able to trace the full quantity related to the 1 , 650 , but I can not say if this is the total fraud or if there are other amounts , because the inquiry is continuing . 
We are just at the beginning . 
New checks and inquiries are being carried out in the UK , for instance . 
It may be that there are other quantities around . 
I hope not . 
On the second issue : you are aware of the position of the Commission on labelling . 
The decision and the reaction of all Member States was to make compulsory labelling begin from the year 2000 , and to have voluntary labelling for the moment , provided that it is possible to trace this meat . 
I hope that not only this crisis but also the greater awareness among consumers will push Member States to at least speed up voluntary labelling as far as possible . 
Conversely , Americans select leaders who believe the honourable Members of the House to be too dumb to see the truth , too morally deaf to hear it , too cowardly to raise their voices in dissent . 
The case of Joseph O'Dell , a presumably innocent man condemned to the gallows in the sovereign State of Virginia , offers us the chance to prove they are wrong , the hope that our voice will be heard to save his life , the dream that our common resolution may begin to reverse the savage trend towards the judicial assassination of thousands . 
What we are looking at is an extraordinary phase of routine horror , a pervasive lethargy about the rights of men . 
Never before in a western democracy have we known such a silence , such an emptiness . 
The debate on capital punishment - whenever they have one in the USA - is about what form is more humane : gas , hanging , injection or electrocution . 
We should try to bring back our American friends into the family of men through some practical means , maybe inviting millions of European tourists to visit only those few States without the death penalty : the snows of Vermont instead of the rolling hills of Virginia , the beaches of New England instead of the palm trees of Florida . 
Mr President , we have heard today quite a lot about achievements , intense discussions and indeed some problems with our partners on the other side of the Atlantic . 
There is no doubt that negotiations at the Washington summit or wherever else have to proceed whenever dissent emerges as a substantial obstacle to the transatlantic agenda and dialogue . 
It is also true that in some cases negotiations per se , in particular with protracted deadlines , serve only the purpose of the other side . 
The troublesome case of Helms-Burton should have taught us a bitter lesson by now . 
At the same time an atmosphere of intimidation and fear has been created and continuously fuelled as a result of threatening statements by some congressmen . 
The results are in front of us . 
Trade between the countries of the Union and Cuba has been drastically reduced . 
Investments are being cut or halted to the levels of 1996 . 
In other words , Helms-Burton is operative . 
It works wonders for the USA while endless negotiations go on with only some barking and very little bite in this House and in Brussels . 
May we suggest that the time has come to fix a deadline - let us say 31 December - and then go for the only option available , recourse to the WTO panel . 
We would like very much to have a clear-cut opinion from the Commission on the matter of a deadline concerning negotiation , on Helms-Burton or , for that matter , the D'Amato Act . 
Mr President , at the eleventh hour the apparent temporary solution to the Iraqi/United States crisis has avoided a tragedy of major dimensions for the Iraqi people , that is , a prolonged air bombing and missile offensive by the United States armed forces . 
We can not but express our deeply-felt relief for such an apparent solution and our thanks to those members of the Security Council of the United Nations who worked against time to restore the UNSCOM role in Iraq and to avoid further bloodshed . 
The lifting of the embargo on non-strategic goods is overdue , as is in our view a gradual lifting of the oil embargo far beyond the arbitrary limits of the food for oil problem . 
The European Union , shockingly absent and passive up to now , has to step forward and convince our American friends that this carnage must be stopped , that a temporary solution of this crisis could lead to a worse crisis in the future if diplomatic , political and economic alternatives are not pursued to replace the threatened use of B52 stealth bombers and tomahawk cruise missiles . 
Madam President , it is with heavy hearts that we again raise our voices in defence of the human rights of a political prisoner in the United States : the Italian and European citizen Silvia Baraldini , ailing in the penitentiary of Danbury , Connecticut , after having served fourteen and a half years of a 43-year sentence for a youthful association with a revolutionary Afro-American movement . 
Her incrimination and sentencing did not indicate personal involvement in acts of violence leading to bloodshed . 
We read in the rejection of her appeal four months ago by the local Parole Board that she is supposed to have had foreseeable knowledge of the crimes being committed by her associations . 
Note , not ` knowledge ' but ` foreseeable knowledge ' - a very peculiar notion indeed of guilt by our standards of justice . 
It is not our intention here to criticize or interfere with the judicial system of the United States . 
The purpose of this resolution - the third in three years - is to ask our American friends to abide by the terms of an international treaty - the Strasbourg Convention on transfer of foreign detainees to their country of origin - a treaty that has been signed and ratified by Italy and the United States . 
We do not ask for the freedom of Mrs Baraldini but for her transfer to an Italian jail where she could at least be visited by her 80-year-old mother . 
We ask for an act of compassion on humanitarian grounds . 
Since last July her physical and psychological state has been deteriorating rapidly , while the rules and conditions regarding her incarceration are becoming stricter and more unbearable . 
We ask the American authorities not to ignore , as they have done until now , the appeals and resolutions of this House , the mood and the emotions of Italian and European public opinion . 
The transfer of Mrs Baraldini to Italy would not only be an act of justice and humanity but also a great contribution to that transatlantic dialogue that has dominated our debates in this session of the European Parliament . 
Mr President , the overall clarity , depth of analysis and foresight of these reports on the communication from the Commission on Europe and the United States are such as to overcome some of our initial reservations and objections . 
We can not but appreciate the pragmatic , critical approach to the growing imbalance in the transatlantic relationship . 
The remedy suggested the urgent need to rethink , on more equal terms and on more serviceable parameters , the great design of a properly functioning partnership between Europe and the United States of America : particularly at the present juncture where the dogma of globalization is producing social and economic upheavals ; the Asiatic flu is turning into pneumonia for the financial markets of the world and the usual formula of privatizing profits and socializing losses through the International Monetary Fund does not seem to work and presents costs unacceptable not only to Europe but also to the United States Congress . 
The Souchet report should be highly commended for its criticism of some egregious cases of American unilateralism in many fields that are already regulated by international agreements or where cooperation with other partners should have been the order of the day . 
The most ominous case is the arbitrary and unilateral decision by Congress , accepted by the Administration , to cancel a large part of United States arrears in financial contributions to the United Nations and to subject its operations to the control of American institutions like the General Accounting Office ( GAO ) . 
This is , of course , the work of Senator Jessie Helms of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs . 
The main purpose of the amendments we are presenting is to formulate unequivocal European support for the alternative reform of the United Nations promoted by the Secretary-General , Kofi Annan , to preserve independence in the universal role of the organization as enshrined in its own Charter . 
Madam President , we can not but express astonishment and dismay about what we have heard today , particularly from the British Foreign Office gentleman . 
We read the same papers he reads about the weapons of mass destruction , British-developed anthrax and the inflated threats against humanity . 
We also know the role his government has played , first to block , then to hinder the mission in Iraq of the Secretary General , Kofi Annan . 
We learn that the use of incredible force to produce a diplomatic solution has long ceased to be a threat to achieve anything at all , as the juggernaut of American military power moves inexorably and with devastating force against the Iraqi people : there are one and a half million victims of the embargo , an embargo that somebody in this House wants to prolong forever . 
On this side of the House , we nurture no sympathy for the Baghdad dictator . 
We still hope that Mr Annan might perform a miracle . 
We deplore , in the strongest terms , the veil of hypocrisy and mystification drawn over this pre-planned massacre , over this tragedy of major proportions and , more than anything else , over the attempted use of this Union to support blind instruments of Anglo - American military and foreign policies at their worst . 
As I said to the honourable Member , every Member State has been inspected at least once and the results are available . 
We have discovered that some of the rules in the directive , which was implemented on 1 January 1998 , are far from satisfactory . 
There are also legal obligations arising from other directives such as third countries requesting approval for exporting fisheries or for exporting fresh meat to the European Union . 
I can make available to Members in writing all the obligations , emergencies , what we have done on animal welfare , what we have found and why the Commission itself is not satisfied with the situation . 
This is an exercise we are trying to conduct in an informal way . 
So , we are faced with these two problems : firstly , the animal welfare groups are not very strong and , secondly , our formal counterparts are the Member States alone . 
Nevertheless , I hope that the organizations dealing with animal welfare in the European Union will forge closer links with their counterparts in third countries so that we can establish another form of contact between the people who have to implement the law . 
I have already partly answered the question . 
In the larger process of negotiation and enlargement due to the acquis communautaire , evidently this rule will be taken care of . 
Of course , it is a long way ahead , so we need to find a quicker way of ensuring that the directive is implemented . 
This is a very technical question but I think it has a political more than a technical meaning . 
A reduction in beam lengths reduces efficiency rather than increasing selectivity , and , as such , would not be considered as a technical measure . 
I can confirm that technical measures can not be taken into account for the achievement of the MAGP IV objectives , as their effects on fishing efforts are considered to be additional to those of the MAGP . 
Since this compensatory effect was recognized and calculated , account was taken of the reduction in beam length by reassessing the appropriate base-line level of activity for the MAGP for this part of the Dutch fishing fleet . 
There was then no net increase in the fishing efforts base line for MAGP IV . 
No Member State has therefore benefited from national compensation measures in the context of MAGPs . 
We understand that it decreased efficiency but they increased their activities , so the result was equal . 
For this reason , there was no compensation , and the technical measures can not be taken into account for the calculation of MAGPs . 
Maybe I was not clear . 
The special case that you are referring to , because it was compensated was not in fact taken into account . 
They have to reduce the activity , in any case . 
This is the result of what I am saying . 
Our request is that they reduce their activities . 
Is that clear now ? 
Technical measures are additional but can not be included in the calculation of MAGP IV . 
Mr President , on the issue of the death penalty and its macabre exploitation in the Republic of China , we are now confronted by an extraordinary phase of routine horror . 
On this issue at least , we appeal to this House to abandon its tradition of not letting the facts stand in the way of political and economic convenience . 
Last month , we asked to no avail the diplomatic representatives of China in Brussels , Mr Huang Daosheng , Mr Wang Wen and Mr Wei Min , to provide us with documented evidence disproving such ongoing horror . 
We are still waiting ! 
Capital punishment in Burma 
I can answer two of those points . 
Certainly , any decision by the Council of Ministers to overrule the present system has to be taken by a qualified majority . 
I think what President Santer 's letter to Prime Minister Blair means is that the Commission will not make any proposal to the Council to change the current system . 
Decision making is in the hands of the Council of Ministers and it can overrule the arrangement by a qualified majority . 
But the Commission will not be arguing for this . 
Mr Teverson , you know very well that the current system is already a derogation from the Treaty . 
As far as the replies we have received so far are concerned , they are very largely , or I would even go so far as to say , entirely in favour of the status quo . 
I will not enter into any commitment at this stage . 
Maybe I can give a personal assurance . 
We are entering into consultations and it would be unfair for me to commit myself now . 
The overwhelming majority of the answers up to now have all called for relative stability to be maintained . 
That is my personal view at this stage . 
I do not want to commit myself further today because we are consulting and I do not want to undermine the exercise completely . 
There is no new money , but there is a possibility of using the money currently available in the Member States , of rescheduling the present funds . 
We are discussing this with the authorities . 
We really feel that for Ireland , the UK , France , etc , taking into account the average of what has been spent up to now , there is room , frankly , to cover this new expenditure . 
Again , the European budget provides 50 % to some Member States , and 75 % to Ireland . 
I do not know if all seas will have the same treatment but I am confident that all of the European fleet will have the same treatment . 
I can not prohibit driftnets from being used by Japanese-flag vessels or others . 
That is another dynamic that is now under discussion in the CGPM in the Mediterranean where the Commission has just recently become a member . 
But I am confident for many reasons , one being the financial incentives , that before the deadline of 1 January 2001 , even in the Mediterranean , the fishermen will finally realize that it is even more convenient for them to take this opportunity . 
I have no reason to doubt the effectiveness of enforcement , though I would stress again that , while the Commission will be very vigilant , enforcement is first and foremost the responsibility of the Member States . 
The first projects which were decided on 4 November were immediately operational because we decided to use the NGOs which were already working in the field so that there were no gaps . 
With the recent plan of ECU 10m , we have slightly enlarged the list of the NGOs . 
One of the problems at the beginning was transport and how to reach a population where the bridges had all collapsed and there were no roads . 
Finally , we had some success with helicopters but helicopters can not carry large quantities of food . 
Finally they accepted this , even if some political tensions remain . 
There is no major need for food except for vulnerable groups . 
The real major need is for drinking water in order to prevent epidemics . 
The new plan is mostly concentrated on basic health care , the rehabilitation of pumps , and drinking water . 
If you are interested , I can give you details of what every NGO is doing in the field . 
I do not have the final exact figure on Bangladesh but I will obtain it for you . 
What we have discovered over the past year is the major impact of recurring natural catastrophes . 
Overall , in the action plan for 1999 , we want to strengthen our natural disaster preparedness . 
We even thought of having a disaster preparedness or natural catastrophe fund . 
We are still considering whether it is wise , possible or viable to have a fund which can be more easily used to react to , prevent , or prepare for natural catastrophes . 
We are still discussing what is the best way . 
As far as Bangladesh is concerned , I will provide you with the exact figure . 
Madam President , it is with a feeling of dismay and deep anguish that we again raise our voices on behalf of Leonard Peltier , languishing in an American jail for 23 years for crimes he did not commit and after a court case which cast serious doubt on the administration of justice in the United States of America . 
Representative , Joe Kennedy , the son of the martyred President , recently said : ` This government has the moral duty to correct this injustice . 
Seeing that justice is upheld for Leonard Peltier would amount to a major act of reconciliation for past injustice done to the native American peoples . ' 
That means that he can not eat - that his mouth can not be opened any more . 
The United States Bureau of Prisons still denies his request to be operated on by proper surgeons . 
Enough is enough . 
In the name of humanity we urge the United States Administration to take prompt care of its native son . 
We ask President Clinton to use his powers of pardon to release Leonard from prison immediately . 
Mr President , during this year many of us have met Mr Ibrahim Rugova . 
On his frequent visits to European capitals and to Brussels , Mr Rugova told us several times , and with growing anguish , that a tragedy was unfolding in Kosovo and that Milosevic 's violence would push the Kosovar population , and especially its young people , to armed struggle . 
Unfortunately we did not take heed of those dire warnings . 
Perhaps we wanted to , but we did not succeed . 
The time required to reach intergovernmental agreements - the UN is a case in point but so are European mechanisms - is very long , which means that our decisions are dictated by procedures instead of by the true necessities of history and by the facts . 
NATO 's intervention was long overdue and I congratulate our colleagues from the EPP Group for clearly rejecting this statement , which I can not imagine represents the opinion of our colleagues . 
We respect the voices of those who would honestly not like to see weapons used . 
We respect the voice of Catholic leaders such as the Pope ; but if we do not use force against Milosevic , violence will continue and spread . 
We need a union of minds and determination . 
This is the reason why the ELDR Group would have preferred the European Parliament to have considered the utilisation of ground troops if needed . 
For the rest , we fully agree with the joint statement and with what Chancellor Schroeder said this morning . 
Mr President , it is not in a spirit of sterile recrimination but because of our concern and alarm about the way the situation is now developing that we feel compelled to recall and stress the direct and indirect responsibility of the United States of America for the massacres , the ethnic cleansing , going on unabated at this very moment in East Timor . 
We share some of the relief felt by many when the Clinton Administration , in an apparent turnaround , finally criticized the Jakarta Government and let the United Nations take control of the crisis . 
Anybody in this House who is not familiar with Washington ' s role in the tragedies in Indonesia and Timor , from 1966 to the latest genocide unleashed by the military on 30 August , should read the analysis published today by the Washington Post and the Herald Tribune under the banner headline ` Pentagon defends Indonesian military contacts as useful ' . 
We are reminded of the close personal friendship between the Chairman of the United States Chief of Staff , General Henry Shelton , and the butcher from Jakarta , General Wiranto . 
The top military man in the United States aiding and abetting the violence in East Timor and last Monday ordering his Indonesian pal to accept an international peace force . 
May we suggest that in order to avoid future surprises , the Council and Parliament monitor very closely the peacekeeping mission of the United Nations , the humanitarian aid plan by Europe , the integrity of any present or future programme designed to put an end to the suffering of the Timorese to guarantee their full independence and sovereignty free of any threat , interference or pressure by the Indonesian military and their American mentors . 
Mr President , since I and my colleague Olivier Dupuis moved this draft resolution on a moratorium on the death penalty , a most grievous and sinister event has taken place . 
Last Monday , the United States Supreme Court rejected the petition for a writ of certiorari by Moumia Abou Jamal , the Afro-American freedom fighter sentenced to death in 1992 . 
At the very moment we are debating in this Chamber , Thomas Ridge , the Governor of Pennsylvania , is probably issuing and signing the order for his execution . 
There are very few legal avenues left open to Moumia to escape the gallows . 
As has happened in the past , when this House , the Council , various heads of state and world public opinion mobilised to obtain a stay of execution , we once again have to do everything in our power to save the life of this victim of racist hatred and of an egregious perversion of justice . 
