Madam President , we are not asking for more bureaucracy , as Mr Karas put it just a few minutes ago . 
We are looking for solutions . 
Of course capital markets need clarity - that is actually the idea . 
The Tobin tax will bring some transparency to a very obscure question . 
He recognised that the combined impact of the single market and the single currency that characterise the process of the European Union 's construction is intimately linked to a huge amount of new regulations . 
Now that financing is readily available across national boundaries without any difficulty the same approach will obviously be strictly necessary , all the more so as we consider that an enormous amount every single day is employed in speculative transactions . 
We citizens of the world can not afford the current rate of speculation . 
To continue would be economic suicide . 
Mr President , the problem is one of public honour in this Parliament , it is not a personal statement . 
This morning , the President of Parliament , Mrs Nicole Fontaine , repeatedly refused to allow me to make a point of order . 
Unfortunately , this is not the first time that Madam President has shown this inadmissible behaviour towards me . 
In doing so , Madam President has breached Rule 142 that states that points of order shall take precedence over all other requests to speak . 
This partisan behaviour of our President should be criticised most firmly . 
I will willingly accept Madam President ' s apologies any time . 
Just three months ago I took the floor in this House to congratulate the Irish and British people on their success in reaching the Northern Ireland settlement , as many other colleagues did . 
In Northern Ireland in the last thirty years too many people have been killed and injured - too many families shattered . 
So far , unfortunately , in Spain and France , just the opposite has been happening as regards the on-going conflict in the Basque country . 
We , Euskal Herritarrok , are convinced that a definitive solution to the present struggle can only be found through an open process of dialogue and negotiation with no limited agenda . 
Before 20 January last , during nineteen months , the only killing we witnessed in the Kingdom of Spain was that of José Luis Geresta , member of ETA , in March 1999 . 
In spite of that and the arrests made by the Spanish and French police , including arrests of ETA negotiators with the Spanish government ' s agreement , ETA honoured its unilateral ceasefire . 
Then , last November , before the ceasefire was over , the Spanish Government spokesman , Mr Piqué , declared that his government had done and would in the future do everything possible to hinder present moves towards a political solution in the Basque country . 
We , Euskal Herritarrok , have regretted many times the loss of human lives . 
We share with all the Basque citizens the sufferings of our people . 
We are committed to dialogue and ready to work together with all those eager to find a democratic settlement for the Basque country . 
Twenty years have passed since the Northern Ireland question was first raised in this Parliament . 
Mr President , the conclusion of trade negotiations between the European Union and Mexico , considered from a positive perspective , could mean a new and durable framework for the institutionalisation of political dialogue and cooperation , provided that this trade pact works to the benefit of both sides . 
Unfortunately , the experience of NAFTA shows us that this target was not achieved automatically , because there is evidence that free trade has had an adverse effect on the lives of many people , exacerbated environmental damage , and marginalised wide sections of the Mexican population - all the more so as Mexican human rights NGOs have also reported a deterioration in the human rights situation since the interim agreement came into force in 1998 . 
So , all in all , the on-going agreement has not allowed Mexico to protect vulnerable labour , intensive sectors and minimal environmental standards . 
In the light of this we can not be optimistic , because the procedure followed in the recent negotiations , without effective control either in this House or in the Mexican Senate , provides ample evidence that the agreement lacks those mechanisms absolutely necessary to ensure that the damage currently being done will not be repeated again in the future . 
Mr President , I would like to give an explanation of my negative vote on the report on the European Year of Languages . 
Firstly , language occupies an important place in European civilisation and culture , irrespective of numerical considerations regarding the size of the population . 
This statement is thoroughly valid for lesser-used languages . 
Secondly , the target year for this decision is 2001 ; European citizens could become proficient in other languages as is shown by the fact that all people who speak minority languages , without exception , have in common an excellent training in this field . 
All of them are already bilingual . 
It is completely wrong to exclude minority languages from this initiative . 
It is regrettable that this House has not accepted the important services that lesser-used languages could contribute to the success of this initiative . 
Madam President , I want to mention the publication of a very important report a fortnight ago from the European Committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment . 
The report is to the Spanish Government on the visit to Spain by the European Committee at the end of 1998 . 
The report is accessible via the Internet , as is the Spanish Government ' s response . 
A week ago , a Spanish Court sentenced five former government officials , including a Civil Guard general , to up to 71 years in prison . 
The sentences ended the second so-called `` dirty war '' trial and added weight to allegations that a dirty war , sponsored by the former Socialist government of Filipe González , was waged in the early 1980s . 
All seven defendants were absolved of charges of torture and belonging to an armed group . 
The sister of one of the victims told reporters that it was shameful that they were not convicted of torture . 
It is important to know about this matter . 
- I voted against the report on the trans-European high-speed system ( A5-0112 / 2000 ) . 
It is most enlightening to compare the two reports presented by our colleague , Mr Savary , even if these documents have different legal bases . 
The high-speed sector and the conventional rail system respond to quite different philosophies . 
This fact is , in itself , expressive enough . 
On the high-speed rail system report the Environment Committee , astonishingly , did not deliver any opinion , even if the environmental aspects are not mentioned in it at all . 
It seems that most people in this House do not really care about the need to rebalance the different modes of transport in favour of the railways , to reach a significant rise in the volume of goods and passengers that nowadays overwhelmingly use the roads . 
- Madam President , unfortunately I can not agree with what you have said . 
There is no truth except the whole truth . 
This is much more than a metaphysical quotation from Hegel . 
We in Euskal Herritarrok also regret profoundly the loss of human lives and share with all Basque citizens the shocked feelings of our people at the moment . 
Bertrand Russell denounced the obscenity of deliberately humiliating a nation , of making people crazy so that a straitjacket would be needed . 
This is actually the Spanish Government 's strategy towards the Basque country . 
The action of ETA is a righteous expression of the struggle for recognition of something quite elementary . 
Mr President , in the Minutes , in point 2 , you can see at the end , after Parliament observed a minute 's silence in memory of those who had died , the Minutes said : `` Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso spoke . '' 
You can understand that the difference is a very substantial one . 
I would like to amend it . 
That is at least based on a reference but then some mass media in Spain , whereas I cited Hegel as a quotation , have put in Nietzsche and this is no coincidence at all . 
I am afraid I am faced with a determination to put words into my mouth which I did not say . 
That is my protest . 
I would like to amend what is in the verbatim report . 
Mr President , in the approval of the Minutes it says that I said I had been deliberated misquoted . 
I did not state that . 
It was just a possibility , not a statement . 
I would not say that the transcription was deliberately badly done in any case - that was only a possibility . 
In the Minutes it sounds as though I am making an accusation . 
I would not dare to say so , because I have no proof at all . 
It is merely a possibility . 
Mr President , in fact I was trying to amend the verbatim report of proceedings because in the Minutes it said only that I spoke , nothing else . 
Concerning the verbatim report I put the accent on the fact that there was an expression that I had not used . 
Mr President , colleagues were shouting and so it was very difficult to hear what I was saying . 
Right now there is no problem . 
At the time Spanish colleagues were shouting so it was very difficult to hear . 
That is why I can not say ... 
Mr President , more than 15 000 people have been arrested , more than 5 000 tortured . 
Hundreds of people have been killed . 
Journalists and deputies have been killed by state terrorists , local councillors have been killed by state terrorists , men and women , my colleagues have been killed by state terrorists in the Spanish Kingdom . 
Can the European Parliament collaborate with state terrorism ? 
Today , more than ever , the great majority of the Basque people remain committed to non-violence . 
It is particularly fitting , at this moment , to remind ourselves that the Lizarra Agreement , that two years ago opened the way to a peaceful and democratic Basque society , was consistently rejected by the Government of Madrid after an unconditional ceasefire . 
The moving remarks from the victims of ETA and the Spanish repression prove better than anything else the tragedy of permitting this excellent opportunity to be wasted . 
Here you see the Spanish idea of freedom of speech and democracy . 
They are not tolerant , they have spoken for more than three-quarters of an hour , they can not stand just one minute by me , that is their democracy . 
The day when the European Union will stand for a political solution , I will assure you that for 100 % of the Basque inhabitants , including PP and Socialists , will be the happiest day in our lives . 
Mr President , that honours you greatly . 
You are really democratic because you accept free speech . 
It is not the problem really ; these people do not accept that there is another possibility : namely that the Basque Country has the right to its own identity in Europe . 
That is what is impossible for the Spanish democrats to accept . 
Madam President , last Monday I took the floor to give evidence to the honourable Members of this House on the recent decision of the Spanish government granting clemency to fourteen torturers . 
In no motion for a resolution on human rights do we find the slightest reference to the Kingdom of Spain though many countries are specifically mentioned . 
This is most regrettable as the pardon from the Spanish government has been granted in order to guarantee impunity to torturers and to maintain torture as a fundamental practice in its strategy of repression . 
On human rights , once again , hypocrisy has been voted through in this Parliament . 
United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva 
Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam ... 
Mr President , I disagree with the previous speaker so first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Jensen , on this comprehensive report . 
Indeed , there is much that we can support in this report , in particular the emphasis given to the proposed Community-level/local-level mixed approach to employment policy . 
In the Committee on Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities we emphasise that the analysis and evaluation of this action in the field of employment should be carried out on a gender-specific basis , given that women are bearing the brunt of unemployment in Europe . 
Commissioner , the Lisbon objectives of bringing up the employment rates for women , a target for 2010 of 60 % can already be considered too ambitious . 
In the Kingdom of Spain where the employment rate of women is probably the lowest in the European Union , it hardly reaches 30 % of the active population . 
Mr President , on 8 November the Commission adopted the reports for the year 2000 on the progress made towards accession by each of the 15 countries . 
It considered that all of them , with only the exception of Turkey , were observing the political criteria set in Copenhagen . 
Despite that , a fortnight afterwards , Turkey attended for the first time the fourth conference on the European Union social funds . 
During the summit in Nice , Turkey promised that the new F-type prisons where physical and psychological torture exist would no longer be used . 
We all ought to read the report of the human rights mission from 26 December until New Year 's Eve . 
This report has been presented in Brussels and shows the desperate situation of hundreds of prisoners in Turkish prisons , in particular those of Kurdish origin . 
Article 4 of the proposal dealt with by Mr Swoboda should be implemented immediately . 
We do not need to go any further . 
This must be stopped right now . 
Otherwise , is this the right way to guarantee the promotion of Kurdish identity ? 
As Mr Brie has pointed out , reality contradicts us . 
Madam President , I have voted against this proposal because of the profound contradiction that arises from the fact that this morning all the Members that have taken the floor on the proposal dealt with in Mr Swoboda 's report have directly or indirectly recognised that Turkey does not meet the Copenhagen criteria . 
Article 4 of this proposal includes a type of suspension clause if there is insufficient progress toward fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria . 
Now this proposal has been accepted I ask for Article 4 to be implemented and for aid to Turkey to be stopped until it meets the Copenhagen criteria . 
At the beginning of this sitting Madam President spoke about `` la liste insupportable d' attentats '' and I agree with her . 
This is an unbearable situation . 
Now , at the very moment when the Colombian President is meeting President Bush to discuss pursuing peace talks with revolutionary guerillas and when Zapatista supporters are marching through twelve states to Mexico City to discuss with President Fox a bill that would grant Mexico ' s Indians self-government , legal status for their language and rights over natural resources , the Spanish Government , on the contrary , is making a new aggressive bid to crack down on Basque independence campaigners . 
Last weekend , in Bilbao , Mr Mayor Oreja affirmed that he wanted to defeat ETA , not just ensure its disappearance . 
Do you believe , Mr Poettering , that this aggressive policy will bring peace to the Basque country ? 
Madam President , less than a fortnight ago you spoke about a previous killing in the Basque country . 
In the meantime , 57 people have been arrested . 
The conflict in the Basque country bears some resemblance to that in Northern Ireland . 
They hold the view that the only possible position on armed struggle and the underlying nationalism is to wipe them out . 
Until the paths taken in London and Dublin become the main model for Madrid and Paris it seems that the political landscape will remain as it is . 
You , Madam President , will continue to back the Spanish strategy , and I will continue to say what my Spanish colleagues dislike most . 
That is a very sad reality . 
I would like to ask a question about the use of Parliament 's facilities by the PPE-DE in relation to the elections in the Basque country . 
Madam President , you mentioned the elections in the Basque Autonomous Community . 
Yesterday 's elections have been a rough competition on who is best to fight our political option . 
It is therefore not astonishing , if we appear as losers . 
The European Union can no longer consider this issue as an internal question of the Spanish Kingdom . 
Every time Madam President speaks on the Basque country , she brings to this House the picture of sadness and pain , which is very regrettable . 
This is why I systematically join this assembly in mourning the victims - all the victims - of our more than a century-old conflict . 
We ought to realise that it is not easy to find an exit to one of Europe ' s darkest political tunnels , especially if we stick to the same paths . 
We must definitely try something new and we , Euskal Herritarrok are eager to give all the help we can . 
Mr President , I have voted against this resolution from Méndez de Vigo and Seguro for many reasons , but particularly because of what happened this morning , namely the rejection of Amendment No 28 . 
That proposed , quite modestly , to recognise in any debate on the future of Europe the political and legislative powers of the current 15 States . 
The problem is that this resolution is quite hypocritical in that even if it says that it recognises its commitment to upholding the rights and freedoms set out in the Charter , these freedoms , such as those in Article 4 of this Charter , are not defended inside the European Union , as can be seen in the case of torture in Spain . 
Mr President , I am pleased to have this opportunity to congratulate the excellent work done by Mrs Hautala . 
She has taken the first step , but after hearing Commissioner Diamantopoulou , we can expect new important steps to improve current EU legislation in this field . 
I think most people in Europe would consider today 's vote on this subject as one of the most important steps towards raising the credibility of this House . 
Probably we have done more today to promote the European Parliament than all the euros spent on this institution 's official propaganda . 
Mr President , the applicant countries who are due to meet in Göteborg at the end of this week already know , in spite of the vicious analysis offered by the mass media , that , as Mr Cox , Mrs Ahern and Mrs Doyle and other speakers said , the Irish people welcome the EU 's enlargement . 
In rejecting the Treaty of Nice , the Irish people have actually blown away the smokescreen that hides the real issues , for instance , that Ireland was moving away from neutrality and towards gradual cooperation into NATO , a move that erodes Irish neutrality , and would mean involvement in the armament industry and the rapid reaction force . 
The Treaty of Nice not only damages the Irish people 's interest but those of every small nation in Europe , the applicant countries included . 
The Irish lesson is a good one . 
They have said `` no '' to removing democratic control from the hands of the people . 
Thank you Ireland . 
Madam President , I voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the preparation of the Göteborg Summit because paragraph 8 thereof , on the future of the Union , calls for a Convention to be established to prepare the forthcoming IGC at the end of 2003 or 2004 . 
Last week a similar amendment to the report by Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mr Seguro was excluded . 
It is regrettable that we have made the same mistake today . 
Madam President , last month in San Sebastian a booby-trapped toy seriously injured a baby in the arms of his grandmother who was killed by the explosion . 
That lady you mentioned , was Maria Eraunzetamurgil , but you said that nobody knows who did it . 
Six people have died as victims of the unofficial dirty war that has already killed 66 other victims since 1977 . 
We expect those responsible to be put on trial . 
Those that were condemned as responsible for the kidnapping - high officials of the Spanish government and police - were released after only a few days in prison . 
All those victims also deserve our sympathy and respect . 
Mr President , it has been a very happy coincidence for the sake of democracy to have had the previous debate on the Echelon network . 
The hypocritical position of the Member States on the violation of citizens ' rights that has been underlined by various speakers can help us in our analysis of the report on terrorism . 
The report , very regrettably , ignores state terrorism . 
But what is even more regrettable is the fact that there are no specific recommendations to foster measures that could implement political dialogue for resolution of conflicts . 
Despite that , this House will most probably accept this report . 
Then it will be for you , Commissioner Vitorino , to propose a text that you have already negotiated , mainly with the Spanish and French authorities . 
On Monday I mentioned the victims of the Spanish dirty war . 
Let me now recall the memory of the journalist , Fernando Pereira . 
As you know , he was killed by the action of the French secret service against Greenpeace . 
Madam President , I voted against this report because it makes no mention of state terrorism . 
I consider that the European Parliament has closed its eyes to the fact that state terrorism is operating with impunity and that the European Union is rejecting the basic principles that we are supposed to fight for . 
Mr President , first of all I would like to emphasise the deep sympathy we feel for the victims of last week 's attack . 
Right now , before any military action takes place , we are already witnessing a massive humanitarian tragedy affecting many thousands of innocent people in Afghanistan . 
The United States has announced that it will lift restrictions on intelligence agencies and give them a free hand to recruit criminals . 
I quote Vice President Cheney : `` To be able to penetrate these terrorist organisations , you need to have on the payroll some very unsavoury characters . '' 
When President Bush declared war - and in fact this is a case of the rich versus the poor , which is the underlying struggle here - he said the war must be won with the tools of action . 
The tools used should be the tools of justice , that is , not by suspending the rule of law or suppressing liberties , but on the contrary , by maintaining them . 
Mr President , Madam Minister , Commissioner Vitorino , honourable Members of this House , if we fight the wrong war , we will lose . 
Mr President , Mr Evans has put a great deal of thought into his report . 
Quite rightly , he raises the issue of the safe-country concept being based on human rights considerations , not on diplomatic links . 
He underlines the lack of common approach between the Member States with regard to the concept of safe countries . 
Mr Evans concludes that the concept of safe countries needs to be defined unequivocally . 
Although I agree with his motivation , we must admit that this approach is not a safe one . 
I recall that our colleague , Mr Pasqua , as France 's French Minister of the Interior , once said that ` La démocratie s ` arrête là où commence la raison d'Etat . ' 
Mr Evans : as long as la raison d'Etat exists , there is no safe country . 
Mr President , the World Conference against Racism , in conjunction with the United Nations-sponsored International Decade of the World 's Indigenous People , has been a unique opportunity to consider the challenges and dangers faced by these peoples and all Stateless nations . 
Unfortunately , I can not agree with the optimistic view expounded by Mr Michel , though I recognise willingly the very important role played by him . 
Through that paragraph the United Nations Summit tried to exclude all these peoples from the right to self-determination recognised by the United Nations itself and international covenants . 
In response to such inadmissible discrimination and intolerance , the NGO forum in Durban denounced very strongly the new expression of neo-colonialists that will , in the long run , provoke the decimation of the cultures and civilisations of these vulnerable peoples . 
This insidious action was prepared at the Conference against Racism with a view to the future . 
It looks to the future , not to the past . 
As the NGO final declaration clearly suggests , structural racism in the past , current manifestations of neo-colonialism and the denial of the fundamental right to self-determination lie at the root of indigenous suffering . 
Turkey has not yet taken the necessary measures to fully restore the political rights of the Kurdish people , suppress torture and abolish the special security courts and prisons that drive prisoners to go on hunger strikes which have claimed more than 70 victims already . 
Turkey has not even fixed a precise timetable for fulfilling the political criteria of Copenhagen . 
We all are aware of the various types of terrorism that have been used by Spanish governments since 1975 . 
This failure to mention State terrorism , even in its general considerations , is most regrettable . 
We all know perfectly well too , that anti-terrorist legislation such as proposed by these means do not guarantee a fair trial all over the EU . 
We are aware that in the Kingdom of Spain this very year of 2001 , the Spanish government has pardoned torturers , released high officials already condemned on grounds of waging a ` dirty war ' and tolerates torture in the most despicable ways , until this very moment . 
Mr President , the President of the Council , Mr Verhofstadt , stated in his presentation that in Laeken there were no taboos whatsoever . 
However , it is crystal clear that the stateless-nations-taboo is more present today than ever before . 
But as Victor Hugo said , `` nothing is more powerful than an idea whose time has come '' . 
Right now , the idea of self-determination is present in the Basque people ' s mind . 
More importantly , there is no reason for their disappearance unless we condemn them to such a fate . 
As a matter of fact , their disappearance would be not only a loss to humanity but the demolition of the best basis for the political future of Europe . 
( The speaker continued in the Basque language ) Urte berri on danori eta zuri zorionak Lehendakari Jauna . 
Mr President , Happy New Year to everybody and congratulations to our President . 
Yesterday Mr Poettering mentioned the relevance of you being Irish as the best evidence of political success for the small countries of our continent . 
As a Basque , I was very pleased to hear that , because the Republic of Ireland , which has only existed for a century , can give a European stateless nation like ours a very encouraging example . 
For that reason too , I wish you good luck and all the best . 
During the coming months , however , the Government of the Kingdom of Spain will be at your side watching how faithfully you are following the path marked out by your predecessor . 
Let me recall that in 1999 the refusal of the Spanish Government to move from its nationalist blindness threw away the greatest chance for peace in more than a generation . 
Prime Minister , can you give this Parliament a glimmer of hope by saying that you will be committed to working towards a political settlement of the ongoing conflict in the Basque country ? 
At the end of this week you will have 10 % less time left in the term of your European Union presidency . 
You must hurry up . 
We are ready for an immediate breakthrough in the present deadlock . 
Mr President , this House is requested to give its approval to the proposal of the Council on a framework decision that concerns directly basic principles of democracy . 
This Parliament is merely consulted . 
Its opinion is , in the words of Mr Turco , `` no more than a costly bureaucratic exercise '' . 
More than forty years have passed since I learned from Patrick McGuilligham at the Faculty of Law in Dublin what the expression `` rubber stamp parliament '' means . 
In our last sitting in Strasbourg , talking about the area of freedom , security and justice defined in the Amsterdam Treaty , the Spanish presidency put security first , ignoring the fact that the only real guarantee for security is the implementation of freedom and justice . 
Mr Watson , on that occasion , stood up to say : `` We will push you to make sure that freedom and justice are not far behind . '' 
Yesterday two more Basque organisations - SEGI and ASKATASUNA - were expelled from the area of freedom and justice in the name of Mr Aznar 's priority - Spanish security . 
Can this judicial decision form part of the European judicial space mentioned by Mr Watson ? 
Mr President , certainly the Turkish Government has improvised some cosmetic measures to hide its awful human rights record , but new repressive actions give us more serious grounds for concern , as the President-in-Office has said . 
The atlas showing the world 's languages in danger of extinction presented last week on International Modern Language Day highlights the critical situation for most of the languages of this planet . 
We ought to have the courage to denounce all governments - like the Turkish one - that threaten so many linguistic communities with extinction . 
President-in-Office , can we accept under democratic criteria that political parties opposed to the disappearance of whole communities could suffer the prohibition of their activities . 
Should we set a bad example with our own situation in the Basque country where our language has been considered at risk of disappearing ? 
I am grateful for being given the floor . 
That is very democratic behaviour . 
In the European Parliament everybody enjoys freedom of expression , whereas in the Spanish Parliament this is not possible . 
Firstly I would like to express my profound solidarity and sympathy for all victims of the current conflict in the Basque country . 
May I ask my Spanish colleagues to assure me that at this very moment people are not being tortured in Spanish police headquarters ? ... 
Today 's Spanish press widely reports the adoption last week of a memorial in the House of Representatives and Senate of the State of Idaho , in the United States . 
They unanimously approved a joint memorial which calls for peace in the Basque country . 
The Idaho legislature - and I quote : - `` stands with the Basques in opposing all violence in the Basque Country and calling for the immediate convocation of a process [ between the governments of Spain and France ] to bring about lasting peace ( ... ) this memorial expresses Idaho 's support of the right of the Basques to self-determination . '' 
Mr President , the concluding report by the President-in-Office on the Barcelona European Council makes pretty depressing hearing . 
Mr Aznar 's formula for the construction of a more flexible labour market expresses with enthusiasm the obituary of the European social model . 
As a matter of fact , that is why the Spanish Government sent huge numbers of police into the streets of Barcelona with the excuse that Batisuna would unleash violence between them and anti-globalisation demonstrators . 
Fortunately , Mr Aznar has not succeeded . 
The basic clash we all witnessed in Barcelona was that of the presidency 's stronghold ghetto and hundreds of thousands of ordinary people marching in the streets of Barcelona . 
Finally , Mr President , I should like to express my sympathy to the family of Professor Marco Biagi , with whom I was personally acquainted . 
Under Rule 122 I shall confine myself to rebutting the statement of one angry right-wing Spanish nationalist that breaches even the most basic norms of parliamentary courtesy . 
It would be quite unacceptable if I were to refer to that colleague as the spokesman of the Spanish torturers , even if there is evidence of torture in Spanish police headquarters . 
Such personal attacks must be ousted from this House forever . 
I am confident that President Cox will do his best to avoid this kind of incident in the future . 
You can check it on the video , Mr President . 
This partisan attitude of Vice-President Vidal-Quadras ought to be condemned most firmly because the credibility of this House depends on it . 
Mr President , this House has this morning approved the Minutes of yesterday 's sitting . 
There is a contradiction between what was approved this morning and the verbatim report of proceedings for yesterday . 
In the Minutes we approved this morning , in the part concerning my words yesterday , at the end of the paragraph it says that `` the President cut him off , pointing out that this matter had already been raised '' . 
In the first place , what I mentioned was not raised by the President . 
But in the verbatim report there is no mention of how I was interrupted . 
I would like the verbatim report to include the words : `` The President cut him off '' . 
This is not a minor point . 
The President stopped me exercising my right of free speech . 
He was nervous when I mentioned that one man was killed by the Guardia Civil . 
For the future , I expect and hope that this House will respect the right of every MEP to free speech and that situations such as yesterday 's will never happen again . 
I would ask Vice-President Dimitrakopoulos to accept that he acts in an indelicate and partisan manner as a Member of the PPE Group of this Parliament . 
Mr President , the report of Mr Lamassoure is indeed a very important contribution to the much needed clarification of our European legal framework . 
I can only echo what the rapporteur says about the position of the new players in the European game - the applicant countries and what he calls `` regions with legislative powers '' . 
The report decides to entrust the main guidelines to the Convention . 
But as long as every Member State sticks to its own selfish interests , the established rules will not permit stateless nations such as the Basque region to take part in the building of democratic structures . 
The most appropriate action at this time would be to pay attention to what the stateless nations are asking for ; that is to say the right to exist in a political link to Europe where all peoples will be present as such . 
The Convention ought to take this on board and include it in the final draft for 2003 . 
Mr President , if we had known that this afternoon speaking time was duty-free we would have all taken the opportunity not only to speak for longer but to express ourselves in a more detailed and precise way , worthy of the subject . 
For the future I urge the presidency to confer with the groups if another heaven-sent opportunity like this appears , so that everyone has an opportunity to profit from the generosity of the presidency . 
Mr President , the Iberian peninsula , Europe 's biggest fishing area , is condemned to confrontation with Commissioner Fischler 's new , indiscriminate common fisheries policy . 
Since 1986 , the fishing fleet of the peninsula has been reduced by half and if the new measures are finally implemented , the days of the Basque fishermen will be numbered . 
I have voted against this recommendation because the compromise found attacks directly Article 7 of the EU 's charter on fundamental rights that protects European citizens ' privacy . 
I regret very much this recommendation that gives up any legitimacy to this House as the leading area in the world in the defence of human rights . 
Mr President , I believe the rapporteur when he says that he has carefully searched the Rules of Procedure for any discrimination that could break the internal balance between individual Members and groups . 
The question of political violence in the Basque country has been raised many times in this House but never has there been a debate on it . 
Last Saturday thousands of people marched quietly through the streets of Bilbao denouncing the continuing practice of torture within the Spanish police headquarters . 
I agree with Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado when he spoke about the political character ? 
Mr Gil-Robles ' recommendation , on the contrary , keeps to the path of the past , that of a European Parliament made up of representatives of the Member States instead of the whole European Community . 
This is regrettable because different peoples of Europe , such as my own , that have been divided by the action of the current Member States , will remain separated in the future . 
For how long will the French , the Spanish and other such separatists persist in this , may I ask ? 
Madam President , I fully agree with the rapporteur that the package of measures from the Commission is a first step towards tackling the specific problems of the border regions , because we are taking a step back into the past , when the current borders of Member States were in many cases inside the old Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman Empires . 
Though the Regio projects cited by the rapporteur as good examples to be followed might be of some help , it is clear that a broader approach is needed to the specific problems of some of the border regions . 
We have to be aware that , as was previously emphasised by Mrs Maes , ` border regions ' is often a euphemism for national minorities . 
Mr President , for the last six months , in spite of the motto `` more Europe '' , the Spanish Presidency has been fostering the old authoritarian reflexes of the Francoist nationalists . 
This practice , Mr Aznar , has made it very difficult for you to sound sincere . 
One enlightening example was your refusal to recognise the general strike on the occasion of the Summit of Seville . 
As a matter of fact , for you and your government , that strike never happened . 
This ridiculous way of yours of ignoring reality is unforgivable in politics and that is why more Euro-scepticism or even outright hostility to the European Union reflect your presidency 's poor schedule . 
`` 2002 est l'année d'une poussée spectaculaire de l'Euro-phobie , notamment dans les classes populaires européennes '' , as Professor Dominique Réné said . 
Of course you are not the only one to blame for the current pitiful image of the European Union because facts like the genocide practices in Chechnya , Palestine and Kurdistan can not be disguised . 
Mr Aznar , you are particularly keen on the teachings of the governments of Russia , Israel and Turkey . 
Everybody can see this from your irresistible desire to ban Batasuna and all the Basque nationalist organisations . 
In doing so you have provoked the bitterest quarrel with the Basque bishops , trade unions and a large majority of Basque citizens since the time of Franco . 
Your time as President-in-Office is over and the Basque conflict remains . 
The only way to get out of your endless Basque nightmare is a simple one : just wake up . 
Before it is too late , please stop hovering over the summits . 
Come back down to earth , Mr Aznar ! 
Mr President , just two words about what my Spanish colleagues said about me . 
First of all , it seems that Mrs Díez González is threatening me because there are only a few days left to me as a Member of this House . 
I do not know if my life is in some way threatened by her words . 
Secondly , regarding the two hundred thousand euros that were apparently destined for ETA ; here in this House there are responsible persons who are perfectly aware of where this money is at the moment and the origin of these two hundred thousand euros . 
I am sorry to have to say to Mrs Díez González that she is lying , with hatred , which is very disappointing for everybody . 
I do not mind withdrawing what I said , provided she withdraws what she said . 
I want to apologise to Commissioner Patten because in my speech I gave him the title of Vice-President of the Commission . 
It was a lapsus due to the Convention . 
I hope that Commissioner Patten will not be offended . 
I have voted against the report by Mr Galeote in the conviction that the new Rules of this Parliament have been used in an improper manner by the big political groups of this House . 
Mr President , on a point of order , I wanted to say that I was going to vote against . 
I wanted to say it publicly . 
Operating at world level , the United Nations ' Committee against Torture publishes its findings every four years and makes recommendations to the signatory states . 
Until now the Spanish Kingdom has not passed this test . 
The Spanish report for the period 1997-2001 does not give guarantees concerning the incommunicado detention or solitary confinement that can lead to ill-treatment and torture , which is commonplace in cases relating to the Basque country . 
More than this , the end result of instances of torture in Spain has been a pardon for torturers . 
The Spanish delegation of the Ministry of the Interior has all the same concluded , and I quote : ` that the number of pardons was not comparable with the number of criminal proceedings involving police officers for offences against human rights ' and there was no policy for granting pardons , such a process being ` not automatic ' in the words of the delegation . 
Tomorrow afternoon the report on Spain will be issued at 3 p.m. 
Could the Conference of Presidents of political groups take a look at it please ? 
Mr President , the European Union Member States agreed last summer that ships in distress should immediately be accommodated in a place of refuge . 
The Spanish Government , on the contrary , decided to tow the Prestige into open sea , regardless of the consequences . 
This week in the Spanish Parliament we witnessed the Spanish Government 's arrogance . 
For more than a month it has produced a day-to-day falsification of facts , failing to adjust itself to circumstances . 
Mr Aznar , as the main political authority responsible , has been totally unable to achieve a sense of reality . 
On the other hand , even if the Galicians have made little progress in their cruel work , they do not lose heart . 
Galicians are admirable . 
The disaster of the Prestige has become the disaster of José María Aznar and the ` prestige ' of the Galician people . 
Mr President , all candidate countries except Turkey have adopted during the last two decades special policies to improve the situation of minorities , in some cases even through the implementation of self-determination to the benefit of several stateless nations . 
Serbia and Montenegro are using the principle of self-determination to try to reach a definitive settlement of the conflict in the former Yugoslavia . 
But it is much more regrettable to read in the explanatory statement of Mr Napolitano 's report that it is unacceptable to suggest the recognition of the right to self-determination , because that falls within the sovereign and exclusive competence of the Member States . 
That means that those stateless nations can not claim the right of their peoples to exist as such . 
How can the European Union ignore the principles of universality , indivisibility and interdependence of human rights proclaimed in 1993 by the Vienna Declaration ? 
Could that be possible in an area of freedom , security and justice ? 
Self-determination is the key to peaceful relations between nations because self-determination equals democracy . 
Could the last victim of the ongoing conflict in the Basque country become the final catharsis for its solution ? 
The European Union 's own history provides recent examples of nations overcoming deep-rooted conflicts . 
We shall endeavour to set up a momentum of awareness . 
I support all those who are eager to work constructively together towards real peace for my homeland . 
Nevertheless , this goal can not be met without the strong commitment of the international community . 
Our failure on this approach has meant a further descent into renewed clashes . 
I am sure that a virtuous circle in favour of political dialogue will bring reward and results . 
A change of gear in the European Union 's strategy is necessary and urgent . 
Mr President , at this moment all over the Basque country demonstrations are being held - 
Mr President , a fortnight ago our only national institution , Udalbitza , was banned and eight of its leaders imprisoned . 
Last Saturday , the day before yesterday , tens of thousands of people were in the streets of Bilbao , taking part in a march that was also forbidden , to back Udalbitza 's efforts to develop a democratic process grounded on the free will of the Basque people . 
Udalbitza has enhanced the national construction of our country , favouring local representatives ' joint action in fields such as culture , the environment , social welfare , economic development , land organisation , sports and , of course , the promotion of the Basque language . 
More than eighty thousand people have given their signatures to guarantee the presence of those local candidates and the growth of self-determination in the elections this month . 
The Spanish judiciary has banned them too . 
Can anyone say what the European Union is waiting for before it reacts ? 
Mr President , respect for human rights has proven to be the most effective mechanism for democracy anywhere . 
This formula asks for an improvement of the actual implementation of the rule of law , meaning respect for such fundamental freedoms as political association and peaceful assembly , the independence of the judiciary , the right to a fair trial and the exclusion of all forms of torture and ill-treatment . 
This must apply everywhere , the Basque country included . 
Now , in a telegraphic manner , I shall put forward some other recent outstanding events concerning human rights in the Basque country , in addition to those you mentioned , Mr President : 
Apparently , it makes no sense in this House to mention the outlawing of Batasuna . 
Mr President , there is common ground in the three reports . 
For different reasons , none of them are optimistic about the Commission 's proposals for the fisheries sector . 
Globally speaking , the Commission 's proposals keep to the traditional path of ignoring the benefits gained from the knowledge and experience of fishermen . 
As a consequence , trust in the Commission 's ability to operate a successful Community fisheries policy is at its lowest . 
Mr Fava mentioned that the Commission recognises that aid measures in favour of small-scale fisheries have not succeeded , and how no immediate action to protect them is planned , in spite of the fact that these small-scale fisheries employ 44 % of all fishermen in the European Union . 
The original advisory councils provided for in the common fisheries policy Green Paper are somewhat neglected , while the need for these regional advisory councils is more urgent than ever , as a different approach from that of the governmental policy of Member States . 
On that , let me take one enlightened sample from recent days . 
The whole Bay of Biscay fishing fleet has this week remained in harbour because of the significant reduction in overall fishing possibilities due to the pollution caused by the wreck of the Prestige . 
The Spanish authorities promised a scientific report on the consequences of the Prestige wreck . 
To date , no direct scientific or biological survey of the fishing areas has been made . 
The Spanish authorities claim , and I quote : ` que no se puede establecer una relación causal entre el vertido del ` Prestige ' y la escasez de capturas ' . 
It is somewhat disappointing and regrettable that the Commission ignores in its proposals what Commissioner Fischler said in London when addressing the fishermen , that is , ` become full players in the fisheries management process ' . 
An excellent message indeed . 
Mr President , I should like to thank Mr Leinen for his efforts . 
Even though I would endorse the report in the light of the undeniable need for the European dimension of political parties at the very moment the Convention is launching the Constitutional draft for the European Union , the system actually proposed can hardly hide the inner tendency to transfer the American way of doing politics to the European landscape . 
It is more than evident that even the most acute analysts can not distinguish the main differences between Democrats and Republicans , as is highlighted by issues such as the recent occupation of Iraq . 
The proposal we are dealing with shows a clear will on the part of the European Union 's lobbies to abandon the historical European arena and to embrace political confrontation in its stead , following the American model . 
The financing scheme leaves no doubt about it . 
Furthermore , we should not ignore the fact that the proposed rules discriminate against political parties of its stateless nations , such as the Basque Country , as Mr MacCormick mentioned just a few minutes ago . 
Moreover , if amendments such as that proposed by Mr Gil-Robles go through , the question remains : has he asked for respect for the laws of the Member State in which those parties operate ? 
Certainly , Spanish nationalists have no limits . 
Mr President , setting aside the issue of the choice by the new Spanish caudillos regarding Mr Rajoy - which , by the way , reminds us of General Franco 34 years ago - I will focus on the meaning of the outrageous exclusion of my political party more than one year ago . 
Political pluralism and cultural diversity are values preached by everybody in this House . 
The banning of Batasuna is thus a European , and not just a Spanish , mistake . 
That is so because , for the accession countries , it is vital that there should be an overall agreement on the principle that strong , assertive , renewed cultural and political diversity is , at the beginning of the new Millennium , a universal fact of European life . 
European integration can never be reduced to the sheer assimilation of small nations : our cultural diversity and inner cohesion could be destroyed . 
This Parliament can not evade its responsibility on this crucial issue . 
Those who have been outlawed will , all the same , stick to the political path , wrangling for rapid and efficient diplomatic action , without preconditions , towards a definite solution to the ongoing conflict in the Basque country . 
Be sure , Mr President , of my personal commitment . 
Mr President , a practical approach to this report will immediately highlight its most important virtue - the fact that European institutions will no longer be able to ignore the pitiful situation of human rights protection in daily life in the Member States . 
As the rapporteur says , this annual report will , in future , be valued and possibly even feared . 
Though I fully share Mr Sylla 's view , I must confess that I have some reluctance in accepting a report subjected to the pressure of current standards of political correctness , which passes over in silence more important considerations such as evident breaches of human rights and political freedoms in some Member States such as the Kingdom of Spain . 
Commissioner Vitorino , in paragraph 22 , the report clearly calls , as an urgent matter , for action to be taken in favour of prisoners who suffer from serious diseases . 
Bautista Barandalla , a Navarrian prisoner , suffers from an incurable illness . 
His case is the object of my written question to the Commission tabled last March . 
I invite everybody to take a look at Commissioner Vitorino 's response on 11 June 2003 . 
If I were you I would feel very ashamed of it , Mr Vitorino . 
Mr President , I wish to inform the House about the situation regarding the number of subscriptions to the magazine Focus on Europe , published by the European Parliament . 
I thought it would be interesting to find out how many Catalan-speaking citizens have requested a subscription for this magazine in its Catalan version . 
According to information obtained from an office of the European Parliament last week , 31 000 have taken out a subscription to the Catalan version . 
If we compare this figure with the subscriptions taken out in other languages - for instance , 63 000 in French and 51 000 in Italian - and analyse the ratio between the subscriptions and the number of speakers of a given language , the conclusion is that there is a very high ratio in the case of Catalan speakers . 
This is a clear demonstration that it was a positive decision to publish the Focus on Europe magazine also in the Catalan language . 
We must recall that this report was adopted in the Committee by 18th votes to 6 , with 4 abstentions , which clearly indicates that the draft constitution lacks of credibility , being this report its formal evaluation by this Parliament . 
The draft Constitution indeed does not incorporate into the Union the basic criteria that could build a desirable home for everybody . 
As the report confirms , the unique nature of the Union is drawn from its member states and citizens . 
Certainly , this exclusion gratifies the Spanish nationalism of Mr Gil-Robles , but does not match in any way with what Mr Tsatsos wrote after the Treaty of Nice : ` The EU must steer a cause between the opposite poles of effectiveness and legitimacy , a balance which takes account of its raison d'être as Union of peoples and states ' . 
Mr President , torture in third countries can comfortably be condemned in this House - the Taliban 's treatment of women is the classic example of that . 
However , nobody can deny that the real test would be to match our rhetoric with concrete acts to deal with the endless stream of torture in one of the Member States - the Kingdom of Spain . 
During the last four years , I have raised this issue several times and nobody in this House has reacted to support my complaints . 
That happened twice in two different sittings of this House during January 2001 . 
And secondly , in December 2001 , when I brandished a poster photograph of a tortured woman , the President reacted in the same way . 
Commissioner , we have to make sure that the European Union will speak up and act to answer any complaint on torture . 
It is up to the Commission to make sure that Member States comply with European law to win credibility from European citizens . 
Political realism has led the European institutions to the conclusion that it is not appropriate at this stage to do anything that might endanger the political architecture of the European Union . 
However , I am convinced that the majority of Europeans do not share this tolerance towards torture . 
We ought not to pretend that we are doing something serious to oppose torture so long as we do not set up a more ambitious compromise , particularly denouncing by name those responsible for torture . 
Unfortunately , to that extent , nothing has changed in the European Union despite a few courageous reports . 
We await proposals from the Commission seeking to put in place a sensible piece of legislation to reinforce the point that torture can not under any circumstances be tolerated . 
Political and legal actions must be taken soon , because finding solutions to torture is a matter of urgency . 
I very much support the emphasis of the Commission statement , though I generally believe that many people in the Basque country would consider that it does not go far enough to meet their concerns . 
Secondly , I denounce all torturers without any exception and I would like to see our Spanish colleagues doing the same thing , namely denouncing the pardon given to torturers who have been condemned as torturers . 
The Spanish Government has pardoned them , so they can torture with impunity in Spain . 
Mr President , on Saturday afternoon once again thousands of people filled the streets of San Sebastian in a massive response to the arrest of eight prestigious members of the Basque cultural world , in what could be considered a new round of repression aimed at the two main pillars of Basque society : its language and culture . 
On the orders of Spain 's , all those arrested are still being held incommunicado in Madrid , at the headquarters . 
Among those arrested last Thursday at 3 a.m. was Mr Joxemari Sors . 
When the only Basque daily was closed down eight months ago , he wrote an open letter to the Spanish judiciary saying that the newspaper had nothing to hide , but much to reveal if called upon to do so . 
The defencelessness of those working to promote the Basque language and culture clearly shows the authoritarian character of the so-called young Spanish democracy . 
Mr President , under Rule 122 , I should like to say just one thing about Mr Salafranca 's comments a few minutes ago . 
First of all , he did not trust my words , so I am not a trustworthy person for him and I am very proud of that . 
Secondly , he did not say I was lying so what I said was the truth , the plain truth . 
But I am sorry , Mr Salafranca , I have no problems outside Spain . 
It seems that there is a slight difference regarding the notion of democracy between Spain and all the other countries in Europe . 
We must bear in mind that the new reform of the Spanish Penal Code , proposed by the PP and supported by the PSOE , opens up the possibility of holding incommunicado for 13 days . 
Lawyers will not have enough time to prepare the cases , and for Basque political prisoners , an impediment will still remain to their being assisted from the time they are arrested , by lawyers they can trust . 
Mr President , I wish to inform the House of the ban on Som Ràdio in the Balearic Islands . 
A few months ago we talked about the prohibition of the newspaper in the Basque country . 
The Spanish Government bans newspapers and radio stations whose opinions differ from its own , especially when the issue is that another language , such as Catalan or Basque , is involved . 
As you can see , the Spanish Government does not only ban the European Constitution . 
Mr President , Julio Medem 's film is a bid to start dialogue using the metaphor of the Basque national game . 
It has been highly acclaimed by the Basque people , but has been condemned by the Spanish Government and by ¡ Basta Ya ! , the Sakharov Prize winner in this Parliament two years ago . 
For the Spanish nationalists , political dialogue in the Basque country is unacceptable because , as they say , it would mean agreeing with the will of ETA . 
As a matter of fact , those reactions may be the film 's strongest endorsement , as its current success proves . 
Last week the Spanish Government announced a change in the criminal code , making authorities that consult their citizens through referenda liable to prison sentences . 
This could also affect citizens who participate in the consultation procedure . 
From this morning , Mr Maragall , the new president of Catalonia , like Mr Ibarretxe in the Basque country , risks coming under these legal provisions . 
Mr President , honourable Members , in your experience as politicians have you ever heard of any purportedly democratic government behaving in a similar way ? 
Mr President , I wish to begin by reacting to Mr Titley 's remarks . 
Firstly , I should like to say clearly that he has my wholehearted sympathy and solidarity . 
We do not know yet who is responsible for the inadmissible behaviour in question . 
He mentioned that the House hears Herri Batasuna praising terrorism . 
I should like to say to Mr Titley , that , as an honourable Member of this House , he has the Irish presidency right now . 
If there is proof of that , he should bring it before the Irish presidency . 
Mr President , I am informed that on 29 December 2003 , at approximately 2 a.m. , the Casal Jaume I Cultural Centre in Russafa , a district of Valencia , was attacked by persons unknown . 
All Casal Jaume I centres are members of the Acció Cultural del País Valencià association , whose goals are to study , support and promote the cultural heritage of Valencia . 
In Valencia , there is continuing violence against parties and associations promoting and supporting cultural heritage and progressive values . 
All those attacks have been reported to the police . 
Mr President , I do not want to open a debate on this matter , but as you rightly said , this is a matter of constitutional concern . 
Moreover , it is part of the legislative procedure . 
It would be very useful for the House to obtain information from the presidency of the Council regarding the reasons behind and the justifications for the four previously mentioned governments ' opposition to the Statute . 
We could then , perhaps , make progress . 
At this moment we do not know the reservations these governments have . 
Mr President , in 1945 the Charter of the United Nations stood for equal rights for all nations , large and small , as the best guarantee to maintain international peace and security . 
Its first Article proclaimed the principle of self-determination of peoples . 
20 years later , in 1966 , the first Article of the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political rights reaffirmed that all peoples have the right to self-determination . 
Unfortunately , the draft Constitutional Treaty of the European Union contains no recognition whatsoever of the right to self-determination for the peoples of the stateless nations of Europe . 
I should like to remind you that under Article 103 of the United Nations Charter , in the event of a conflict between the obligations of countries as members of the United Nations and their obligations under any other international agreement , the Charter shall prevail . 
Let me finish by quoting you an enlightening statement given by Mr Annan as he presented his Millennium report in April 2000 : ` the best way to prevent conflict is to promote political arrangements in which all groups are fairly represented ' . 
Mr President , I plead for indulgence . 
Indeed , this probably is my last speech in this House -- at least from this seat , as I am in the Chair tomorrow and Thursday . 
Mr President , next week Mr Theo van Boven , the special rapporteur of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights on the question of torture , who is known for his great independence and integrity , will present his report to the United Nations in Geneva , fulfilling the mandate conferred on him . 
In its conclusions the report states that action against torture in Spain is no less of a pressing need today than it used to be in the past . 
One illustration of that was given last week when three indicted young Basques accused of transporting explosives complained of continuous torture and ill-treatment during their five days held incommunicado in the Guardia Civil headquarters . 
Mr van Boven said at last week 's press conference that incommunicado detention ` not only creates the conditions for torture to take place ' , the measure itself can constitute ` cruel , merciless treatment ' . 
Mr President , I thank the rapporteur mainly for her continuous commitment to human rights . 
However , in the report there is no recognition of a crucial and urgent issue -- the torture of Basque political detainees . 
Yesterday , a young girl , Ainara Gorostiaga , was released on the orders of the Spanish Judge Baltasar Garzón , after spending two years in prison . 
She had been kept incommunicado from February 2002 . 
Three other youngsters have already been released because there was no evidence against them either . 
Two years incommunicado because of torture ! 
Ladies and gentlemen , ? 
Mr President , I wish to begin by thanking the interpreters for their patience and kindness for the unforgivable suffering I have imposed on everybody since my first speech in September 1999 . 
At that time I announced that I would speak neither French nor Spanish in plenary while the Basque language did not enjoy full recognition in the Basque country . 
Now , five years on , the rights of Basque speakers are still being ignored . 
I would therefore ask -- in the English language , of course -- my French and Spanish colleagues to act immediately . 
I join with other speakers in their positive response to the important work produced by the committee , chaired by Mr Jarzembowski , and to the excellent work of the rapporteur , Mr Sterckx . 
The Commissioner said that a new report on the future of maritime safety will soon be presented . 
I hope that this time the Commission will emphasise the need for immediate and accurate information in the event of maritime disasters . 
That was not the case with the , where the interests of the public and in particular of the victims in Galicia and the northern part of the Iberian Peninsula , including the Basque country , were completely ignored . 
Mr President , I wish to say to the Commissioner that , firstly , in Spain there is Spanish nationalism , and Spanish judges are under its influence all the time . 
We are championing a political path for the Basque people . 
If we are in a European Union based on democracy , and if the Basque people were to decide on a particular political future for their country , everyone should respect that decision . 
I refute any kind of accusation of complicity with terrorism . 
The Commissioner knows perfectly well that I have never defended in this House any kind of action that could be construed as terrorism . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by wishing the new Commissioners well and I hope they will do their best in the difficult tasks facing them in the coming months . 
However , I propose that one of them takes on a new task that concerns the stateless nation issue inside the European Union . 
I hope and expect that a newcomer in the Commission will deal with that matter . 
Mr Prodi could choose a Commissioner now or just think it over . 
Mr President , many among us have read , even studied this document , the 9/11 Commission report . 
We all know what it is , we know what it says . 
It is the reaction -- multipartisan , objective , rigorous -- of the politicians of a society trying to protect that society , trying to be self-critical of their own institutions and to identify what was not working within them . 
Then , if we turn to Europe , we find these documents , one of which was produced yesterday by the Council . 
It is the Council report , dated 12 October , following the report by the Commission dated 8 June 2004 , and it tries to fill the gap . 
What has happened with the framework decision on terrorism ? 
It shows that not even the Netherlands Presidency has given the Commission the answers it needs in order to produce these documents . 
But the Netherlands Presidency is not alone in this : only 13 countries out of 25 have done their homework . 
Less words and more work : legislation is work . 
Madam President , the President-designate of the Commission called on Parliament to be responsible on this issue . 
But that does not necessarily go in your favour , Mr Barroso . 
We are not judging or voting here on the religious beliefs of anyone . 
We are judging your Commission 's commitment to fighting for the basic values of the European Union and your Commissioners ' ability to implement policies based on principles that they do not believe in and do not support . 
We are judging whether this Parliament has a decisive voice in Europe 's political future , or whether we want it to be reduced to an advisory board within the Council . 
Finally , we are judging your own respect for Parliament and your independence from individual governments . 
It is time to be serious , that is true . 
It is time to show citizens our commitment to democracy and our commitment to them , and thereby to strengthen Europe . 
Whatever happens , this will not be an institutional crisis ; it will be a development of democracy . 
Mr President , I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the European Bureau for Lesser -- Used Languages is running short of funds . 
We have also been informed that no funding can be allocated for the parliamentary use of stateless languages . 
Why has the Ebner report , which was intended to improve real language plurality in Europe and the development of lesser -- used and minority languages in the EU , not yet been implemented ? 
This morning we listened to the Queen of the Netherlands talking about the use of one 's mother tongue as a right in a multilingual Europe . 
What will happen to some mother tongues which have been forgotten by the EU ? 
I am referring to Catalan , my mother tongue and that of nine million Europeans . 
Is there any other parliament in the world where the president and first vice-president are not able to speak in their own mother tongue ? 
Should the Union be more efficient as regards its budget ? 
With apologies to interpreters and translators , if Europe is not in favour of real language plurality , we should save money by using only one official language : English . 
This is a debate about our own future as part of a political project and about the legitimate right of Turks to benefit from the kind of growth and stability that can only be brought from Europe . 
It is our duty to find new kinds of relationships with our neighbours and allies , so that both goals can be made equally compatible without endangering the success of our own projects and dreams and making them collapse , which is what could happen if things are not done properly . 
Membership of the European Union can not be the only option we give to our neighbours and friends . 
That needs to be said clearly . 
Other very clear options have to be kept in mind . 
Finally , the European leadership has ignored public opinion and the citizens of Europe too often . 
This time that neglect on the part of our political elite -- treating our citizens as babies -- could have catastrophic effects . 
Thank you , Commissioner , for that answer . 
Mr President , any position on the European Constitution must be based on a balance between what this Constitution says and what it does not say -- something that is not perhaps properly underlined in the report we are voting on at this part-session . 
This leads me to say ` yes ' to this Constitution because of what it represents and because it means a new step forward on the way to a stronger and more efficient , more transparent , more democratic Europe . 
With this Constitution , Europe will have a stronger voice in the world . 
Moreover , our values , including those which are behind our social and economic model , will be strongly proclaimed and protected to allow Europe 's growth and , simultaneously , to protect Europe 's social cohesion . 
But that does not prevent me from acknowledging that the text reflects the unfortunate bias of some political majorities that existed in Europe at the time when it was drafted . 
I particularly regret that it reflects a virtual Europe , a Europe that is not the real Europe , a Europe that does not exist in political terms , where everything that lies between individual citizens and states is just ignored . 
Peoples in Europe , regions , and their political role in the construction of a diverse and plural Europe have simply been neglected , have been passed over in silence in this text . 
But this is just not the reality of the Europe we are all building here together . 
What is worse , some languages , such as my own -- Catalan -- which are stronger than acknowledged officially at European Union level , are blindly ignored in this Constitution . 
Some of these problems can be solved outside the Constitution , and some of us will keep fighting for that . 
I will therefore join those who support this positive step forward in the building of Europe and I will strongly recommend a ` yes ' in the Spanish referendum , although I will fully comprehend and respect any other position taking a different view of this balance . 
I will not take this text as something engraved in stone , but as an improvement that allows us to keep working for a Europe where all citizens and peoples can feel comfortable , and are acknowledged as they really are and want to be . 
Mr President , for the Catalan Republican Left -- the -- and for the other parties in our European coalition -- for example from the Basque country , Aragon and Andalusia -- this is not a good Constitutional Treaty . 
It does not recognise our wish for internal enlargement . 
Stateless nations will not have any recognition in this Treaty . 
We would have accepted the Treaty if only it had included a small step forward -- official-language status for the Catalan language . 
Today , in Parliament , about 2 % of Members may not speak their mother tongue . 
Of this 2 % , the vast majority of us are Catalan speakers . 
I am the fourth Catalan-speaking Member -- after President Borrell , Mr Guardans Cambó and Mr Hammerstein Mintz -- to speak here this morning in a language other than our own -- 
We reject this constitutional Treaty because we want to be directly involved in Europe and want a stronger , more united and cohesive Europe , built on its own diversity ; just the opposite of a nation-state built on the basis of the French model and against plurilingualism , diversity and plurinationality . 
Working nation-states do not make a good basis for the construction of Europe . 
Europe should be built on the basis of national diversity comprising stateless nations , nation-states and constitutional regions , for the purpose of establishing a new European citizenship . 
Mr President , in the referendum on the EU Constitution which was held in the Spanish state , the Basques and Catalans clearly confirmed that we wish to be fully involved in Europe . 
Within the Hispanic map , the percentage of ` no ' votes cast in Euskadi and Catalunya was three times as high as in Spain . 
Europe must take account of this political reality , especially if the goal is to build a closer and stronger Europe that counts for all the people of Europe . 
It would be very undemocratic to neglect the different realities that exist in Europe 's stateless nations . 
We can not be so hypocritical as to claim plurality in Europe and deny it internally . 
At a time when several Spanish MEPs have been complaining of alleged discrimination against the Castilian language , in the same period , Manuel Marín , the President of the Spanish Parliament , forbade a Catalan MP from speaking a few words of Catalan in his introductory remarks . 
Different criteria can not be applied to equivalent situations . 
One can not claim rights , justice or different standards of morality when in Europe and , on the other hand , insist on a pragmatic approach based on financial practicality when in Spain or Italy . 
If we are truly committed to multilingualism , if we want the Castilian language to be used at all committee meetings , press conferences , etc , we must first be honest and safeguard everyone 's linguistic rights , including those of the Catalans and Basques as well as , for example , the Welsh and Irish . 
Madam President , to prove Europe is really united we have to listen to what European people are telling us . 
For the first time in the process of the construction of the EU , there has been a big difference -- in France and in the Netherlands -- between the proposals of the elected representatives and the will of the majority of citizens . 
We are pro-European , we want a united Europe and we are working for it , but we the Catalans and other Europeans from stateless nations do not believe that we are going in the right direction on some issues . 
We can not forget a stateless nation 's rights as a part of the human , cultural , language and citizenship rights that are needed for the united Europe that we want to build . 
Nowadays we have to listen and learn : learn from old mistakes , such as trying to build a European Union only on nation states ; and listen to European citizens . 
It could be that new EU Member States understand Members from stateless nations very clearly . 
Most of the new Member States are new European states , but with a wild history like ours . 
We all need to build new bridges and deal with new ideas to implement a European Union where everyone could be fully recognised . 
If we continue going the wrong way ; if we persist only in the Jacobinical model , the European Union will not succeed . 
Mr President , since Turkey first applied to join the Union , our Group has supported this process . 
Our Group held a meeting in Istanbul where we endorsed this process directly . 
We think that Turkey has undergone a transformation in order to embrace modernity , democracy and the correct process for gaining accession to the European Union . 
Turkey has made efforts to adapt its legal system to comply with the Copenhagen criteria . 
It has also made advances towards democracy , human rights and the protection of minorities . 
I wonder why those who now claim to defend Kurdish rights have been silent for nearly a century and why they do not work for minority rights in other countries in the European Union . 
Turkey has a functioning market economy capable of being competitive within the Union . 
It also has an administrative and institutional capacity to implement EU rules and regulations . 
I think that we have to work so that Turkey recognises Cyprus and that we should consider what would happen if Turkey did not join the EU . 
There are difficulties at present , but I think we should facilitate changes in Turkey so that it can make progress towards joining the European Union . 
We decided to abstain , because the amendments adopted during the vote altered the meaning of the text in many cases . 
The regime has been condemned in the UN for violations of human rights more times than any other country in the world : 51 times . 
All hopes of Iran moving towards moderation have now evaporated . 
There are also many reports of the Iranian regime becoming increasingly involved in Iraq in an attempt to set up a sister Islamic state . 
Tehran has also decided not to respect any of its agreements with the EU with regard to nuclear programming , including the Paris agreement . 
One of Iran 's main demands concerns the People 's Mujahedin Resistance Movement . 
We believe the only way to improve democracy in Iran is to support the main opposition . 
Mr President , I would like to make it clear that this amendment does not challenge the WTO regulations . 
The amendment proposes to add two words , namely ` high risk ' chemicals . 
The only purpose is to clarify that it does not challenge the WTO . 
-- Mr President , as we face the financial perspective of Culture 2007 we are very worried about an issue that the European Union has not yet properly addressed : the promotion of marginalised languages and of minority languages within the EU . 
I would like to refer specifically to the budget problems for the European Bureau for Lesser Used Languages , whose main goal is to maintain real language diversity in the European Union . 
According to the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages , each linguistic community has the right to maintain and develop its own language and pass it on to future generations . 
In the European Union we have official languages , minority languages and languages like Catalan that , being majority languages in their own country , are not in the first or second groups . 
The EU has to provide support for all these languages and for linguistic diversity in Europe . 
That means a budget is needed for minority languages and for the European Bureau for Lesser Used Languages . 
I know that is against the Jacobinist language policy that is practised in some European states , but the EU will work to promote diversity , democracy and freedom and to maintain real equality between languages in the European Union . 
We may be fighting terrorism , but we can not do so with arms that are not democratic . 
We understand why US organisations and institutions , including the CIA , are being closely protected , especially in Eastern Europe , where so much hope for change has been pinned on the United States . 
However , not placing limits on the means we employ makes for a terrible contradiction , since democracy and transparency are fundamental to the maintenance of law and order and to democracy itself . 
Human rights are applicable to all human beings , including terrorists and suspected terrorists . 
I therefore call on the Commissioner to investigate this issue . 
Mr President , I am not intending with my speech to express any sort of disrespect to the autonomy of the Valencian Country . 
In any case , I believe that its autonomy is insufficient considering the real need of this area of the Catalan Countries . 
Having said this , I believe that it is necessary to introduce a requirement for a common European vision regarding territorial planning and environment protection . 
A consensus is necessary in the EU in order to avoid policies that threaten rational European planning and the environment . 
States , regions and autonomous communities should play a role in the definition of this consensus . 
The failure to move towards this goal will cause areas such as the Valencian Country and the Balearic Islands , where construction is the main economic activity , to see their whole territories jeopardised . 
It is already a major anomaly that the building sector is the main profitable activity in our part of the world . 
Not putting an end to this will mean that certain business groups will become richer , bringing about massive social , environmental and economic troubles in the near future . 
In fact , they are like an x-ray of a society at a precise moment in time . 
These elections are a call for realism for all of us and a call for an end to hypocrisy in the international community . 
Millions of Palestinians are desperate . 
They have nothing to lose and they vote for those who promise any change , any reform , and an end to corruption . 
We speak too much about the Middle East and too little about the real situation of men , women , children and elderly people who , along with their families , are desperate . 
We must respect this will . 
But we must respect the will of the people . 
Let us not pretend we will keep showing the same movie and keep the same script , but simply change one of the characters . 
That would be a recipe for failure . 
We are faced with a new scenario that requires new proposals , a new commitment and new pressures on both sides . 
The current situation has arisen precisely because we have not done this . 
There must be new pressure on both sides of the conflict . 
We must search for peace , but we must never forget that we are talking about real people . 
Mr President , I agree with the rapporteur , Mr Agnoletto , that Parliament must not only give an opinion but must also have a role in human rights , democracy and respect for diversity in agreements with external countries . 
Economic development , social peace and a growing economy are clearly related to democracy and human rights . 
Cooperation for development can only be assured in the context of democratic societies . 
If we analyse the efficacy of our cooperation for development , we will confirm that in those countries where democracy and respect for human rights are improved , everything works better . 
In cases of dictatorships , non-transparent regimes or corrupted governments , our work can be completely distorted . 
I wish to point out that we must fully understand democracy and human rights . 
Democracy means respect for diversity ; human rights are not complete without respect for diversity , plurality and cultural differences . 
We have seen how minorities in countries close to joining the European Union rely on us in order to achieve this respect for their rights . 
A chance for plurality and respect for cultural and national rights can come from the European institutions , irrespective of the fact that many European countries do not respect it . 
We have to enhance the role of our Parliament , because it is the house of our European representatives . 
Mr President , it appears that our strategy against the Iranian regime has largely failed . 
Nowadays in Iran we are seeing the worst phase of the theocratic regime : executions are continuing , human rights are at their worst in Iranian history ; the mixture of religion and politics is heavier than in any other part of the world and the government is mobilising its own people and other peoples in the Middle East against democracy . 
I think everybody accepts that developing nuclear power and nuclear weapons in Iran would be dangerous for the whole region . 
For that reason , I agree that we must act carefully when we speak about nuclear power in the region , because we could give the Iranian regime the ideal excuse to continue with its nuclear programme . 
Iranian leaders could be tempted to say that if Israel does not stop its nuclear programme , then Iran has the right to develop its own . 
We have to be aware of the fact that when we are taking about the Iranian regime we are also talking about Syria and Lebanon , the future of the peace process in Israel and Palestine , theocracy and democracy , human rights and universal values . 
Mr President , if we envisage Europe becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world , we need to boost investment in education and in the field of research and development . 
Unfortunately , Europe now suffers from high emigration of our own researchers towards the USA . 
In today 's Europe the best way for a researcher to excel is by joining a leading American university . 
We need to compete with the USA by improving our policies to help our scholars remain in the European Union . 
We need to launch a European research area , with the aim of analysing and finding ways to improve the field of research and make it a useful tool for the needs and purposes of our researchers . 
I believe we must link the Lisbon Strategy to the Bologna Process in order to establish a good connection between our university system and our economic and welfare policy objectives . 
If we do not improve the current educational and R [ amp ] D instruments at EU Member State level and at the level of supra-state bodies , what is known as the Lisbon Strategy will prove to be a big failure . 
Mr President , as a European and Catalan I fully support the need to reinforce historical memory in order to avoid future disasters while we learn from our past . 
In Mr Takkula 's report there is a proposal to finance historical sites related to the main totalitarian regimes that Europe endured during the 20th century -- Nazism and Stalinism . 
I agree with him , but we would also like to extend this proposal to other aspects directly related to this kind of authoritarianism . 
In our case , in the Catalan country , we suffered Franco 's dictatorship which was closely related in origin to Nazism and Italian Fascism . 
The only president of a democratic nation killed as a consequence of World War II was Lluís Companys , President of the Catalan Autonomous Government . 
The first civilian population bombed indiscriminately by hostile aircraft was Guernica , the emblematic town in the Basque country . 
If we neglect Franco 's regime and other dictatorships in southern Europe and the need to rescue the historical memory of this dark period of our history , we avoid discussing the consequences of dictatorships , some of them very disturbing for the European Union , even today . 
Mr President , I would like to share with the Commissioner a concern I have on the current market situation in Romania by giving him an example . 
Last year I visited Rafo , the third biggest oil refining company in the country , and by far the biggest firm in the poor Moldavia province . 
The company is trying to overcome major financial problems that have been accumulating since its privatisation in 2001 . 
Members of its administrative board made me aware of the pressures and obstructions they get from the Romanian Government to continue with the company 's activities . 
Although in July last year a new investor clearly expressed its willingness to clear Rafo 's nominal debt to the Romanian authorities , until now the Government has not shown any interest in this offer . 
Moreover , the Government 's demand for advanced VAT payments for imported raw materials -- which makes Rafo the only company in Romania to have its operation conditional on paying VAT in advance -- poses a serious threat to the company 's viability . 
This discriminatory treatment , which is against free market rules and which questions the impartiality of the Romanian Government towards the companies competing in the market , is still maintained in spite of the solvency and serious intentions of the new investors . 
Mr President , both reports , especially Erika Mann 's , show the intensity of the relationship between the European Union and the United States , and , at the same time , highlight the long list of areas in which there might be difficulties and misunderstandings . 
It is a good time to underline how strong this relationship is and to what extent it goes far beyond the current administration and the problems with the specific administration and specific leadership , which some of us will not like . 
It is something that is deeper than that and it goes far beyond that . 
It goes beyond the strong political debate we might have . 
Precisely because the relationship is strong , it allows us to tell the truth to the other party . 
However , the relationship lacks a real new structure , a real new architecture . 
As is mentioned in the reports , we need a new architecture to protect this relationship , to protect it from external storms and to make it much more solid than it is now . 
This needs commitment from the Commission . 
We are not seeing this commitment in looking for this new architecture , and I think it is the Commission 's role to develop and to work towards that direction . 
It has been a very good experience from which we have all benefited . 
It is important to recognise cultural diversity in Europe -- within each Member State , each society , each region and each nation -- in order to achieve unity with diversity . 
That is our European point of view . 
We can only build European citizenship if we recognise this diversity and if everyone agrees on the same common project for Europe . 
On religion and intercultural dialogue , we should understand that the recognition of religious values can only come through intercultural dialogue . 
Cultural diversity includes religious diversity , which must therefore form part of that dialogue . 
Mr President , one of the main mechanisms for the integration of Europe is the enlargement of the European Union . 
Bulgaria and Romania are at the doors of the EU , Turkey is already negotiating its accession conditions , the new state of Montenegro has expressed its hope of becoming a member of the European Union , and other states in the Balkans may follow suit . 
In this context , I should like to focus on the issue of the Copenhagen criteria and the policies related to minorities . 
Many states are still following the old-fashioned French model and trying to assimilate those who have a language and culture different to that of the state . 
Mr President , on behalf of the rapporteur , Mrs Beer -- who can not be here at this moment , for which I pass on her apologies -- I would like to give a few words of explanation before the vote on her report . 
Mrs Beer asked me to pass on her thanks to the various political group coordinators and to the Council and Commission for their good cooperation in the fruitful compromise negotiations . 
They have been documented in a letter by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner . 
Amendments 108 to 112 take account of various documents concerning the following issues . 
Firstly , the Commission reacted to Parliament 's demand for enhanced involvement in the policy level , which is closer to the implementation phase . 
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner gave formal assurance that the Commission would enter into regular dialogue with Parliament on the content of the draft country , regional and thematic strategy papers and guarantee to take due account of the position of Parliament when implementing the strategies proposed , the ` declaration on democratic scrutiny ' . 
Secondly , concerning exceptional assistance measures , the Commission gave the guarantee to treat the European Parliament at the same level as the Council , which means informing Parliament in a timely manner of exceptional assistance measures which it has adopted . 
Thirdly , the Commission gave its word that anti-terrorism measures will be based on full respect for human rights and humanitarian law and that the Commission engages to ensure compliance with these principles through careful monitoring . 
Fourthly , as a result of the demand by Parliament and civil society for better coordination of the EU 's peacebuilding capacities , the Commission agreed to establish a Peacebuilding Partnership . 
The Commission 's written explanation also reflects the long-standing demand by Parliament to advance the idea of a European Civil Peace Corps . 
Lastly , in view of the severe financial cuts that the Stability Instrument underwent in the course of negotiations for the new Financial Perspective , Commission Ferrero-Waldner confirmed in writing the Commission 's engagement to secure additional resources if needed , via various budgetary options , including the Emergency Aid Reserve and the Flexibility Instrument . 
Our Legal Service has asked us to state that there are still a small number of purely linguistic and technical variations between the texts adopted by the Council and the text recommended for adoption today . 
This is a purely technical issue linked to the fact that , in a first reading agreement , the normal process of legal revision and verification can only take place after the vote . 
However , any variations should take full account of the intention of the House . 
-- Mr President , firstly I would like to welcome this excellent report and thank the rapporteur for his work . 
It is really important to preserve natural assets , but in small ecosystems , the environment , human settlements and cultural heritage are fully interconnected . 
I come from Ibiza , an island that is suffering the effects of the construction of two disproportionately large highways . 
Because of these works , several important elements of cultural heritage have been destroyed . 
Archaeological sites and traditional homes have been destroyed to enable these highways to be built . 
This situation has been repeatedly condemned by civil society organisations and I myself have denounced it before the European Commission and in this very Chamber . 
If this Parliament and the European institutions as a whole take into account the proposals contained in Mr Sifunakis ' report , this kind of damage could be avoided and small islands , rural sites and cultural heritage could be properly preserved . 
That is our main goal now . 
Mr President , I rise to speak on behalf of my colleague , Evelin Lichtenberger , who is unable to attend this afternoon . 
We always speak about a competitive , knowledge-based Europe , but some people put so little trust in Europe 's potential that they prefer to strengthen a non-EU body -- the European Patent Office -- to the detriment of European Union interests . 
If what we want is harmonised jurisdiction , why do we not pursue that aim through EU directives ? 
Furthermore , the cost of litigations would be tough to meet for SMEs because every litigation concerning an EPO patent would go directly before a new international court -- a real own-goal for Europe 's competitiveness . 
I should like to draw your attention to the fact that some big multinationals such as Nokia and GlaxoSmithKline are very concerned about such a proposal . 
If this proposal neither helps SMEs nor is welcomed by big countries , who will help ? 
What we can infer for sure is that it will only increase the work for some patent lawyers . 
Europe does not need merely more patents : it needs more high-quality patents that foster real innovation . 
The number of patent applications filed at the European Patent Office per year has , over the last seven years , increased by about 60 % . 
However , that number does not correspond to an increase in innovative activity , therefore giving us cause for concern over an extension of the scope of Patent Office subject matter . 
We will keep repeating to our colleagues , and especially to the Commissioner , that only a Community framework creates the conditions for an effective , competitive European patent law at international level . 
rapporteur . - Mr President , I wish to begin by thanking the colleagues who helped me draw up this report , and especially the members of the Committee on Culture and Education . 
I would like to mention in particular Vicent Santaló , a member of the legal staff at the Catalan Parliament , who worked with us until his death last summer . 
The main aim of this report is to move forward the concept of plurality in languages . 
Plurality and diversity are common values of the European Union . 
This is reflected in a certain manner in languages . 
As you know , in sociolinguistic terms there are ` normalised ' languages , which are the fully official languages used in all walks of our lives . 
There are also ` minorised ' languages , which are not fully official and can not be used for every purpose , despite the fact they are the main languages in specific language communities . 
There is also a third group , which is that of minority languages . 
Europeans are not as multilingual as we think . 
Unfortunately , many European citizens have only one language - usually their mother tongue - and one of the main goals of the European Union is to have a citizenship able to speak several languages . 
In order to achieve that , it is very important for there to be a change in mentality . 
Our society was formed under the influence of Jacobinist states . 
The aim of the European Union is not to maintain this point of view , but to preserve genuine plurality and work towards citizens being able to speak several languages . 
We need a European language policy . 
That policy should promote multilingualism , improve the language skills of European citizens across the European Union and preserve all languages , whether or not they are official EU languages . 
To this end , the budget and European programmes must support not just the main languages , but all languages , in order to improve diversity . 
In this way we must make a special effort to support endangered languages . 
Every language is good for mankind , and if a language is lost we have all lost something because each language has its own unique expressions . 
It is for this reason that we must preserve genuine plurality and true diversity . 
In this sense , it is necessary to draw up a full report on the actions still to be developed . 
deputising for the author . - Mr President , we have asked for this debate to examine the background and the purpose of the Green Paper adopted by the Commission on 6 December 2006 . 
With the Green Paper , the Commission intends to stimulate a debate over the use of trade defence instruments in Europe : countervailing , anti-dumping and safeguard measures . 
I believe that this is a commendable initiative and I am convinced of the value of this debate . 
We need to talk much more about trade policy and about the choices made by the European Commission and by the Council and we need to ensure that decisions are properly discussed before this Parliament . 
We need to give this Parliament more power and to make trade policy more subject to democratic scrutiny . 
We are all living through a moment which many view as some sort of crisis period . 
We are living through a time when Europeans are asking themselves : what does Europe represent and why do we need such a complicated thing as the European Union in the first place ? 
And , when these legitimate concerns are raised , the importance of the role of a united EU in the globalised world and the importance of having a single voice to represent and defend the interests of 500 million citizens in any negotiation with other trade partners in the world market are vital factors to be considered . 
Europeans who lose their jobs when a company suddenly decides to move eastwards in search of higher profits can not simply be told that times have changed and that they can not stand in the way of progress . 
They want to know what is going on and they must have their voice heard by those that ultimately decide . 
We should not forget that there is more than one recipe for economic growth and trade development . 
It is a matter of policy options whether the future of Europe belongs only to huge retail corporations and to importers or whether we can preserve a model compatible with our most essential social and environmental concerns . 
Our strong belief in free trade is perfectly compatible with the need to ask for a level playing field . 
Even the most peaceful countries in the world - and Europe among them - know that a full commitment to peace does not necessarily mean that armies are abolished and all means of defence are to be destroyed . 
So , we say yes to the huge benefits of free trade in our open world and we say yes to the fair implementation of the rules on which this global trade is based . 
We welcome the Green Paper , which has the merit of opening a debate on this subject . 
Its text and the questions it raises already assume that something must be done to modify the current Community trade defence system . 
This might be true . 
Nobody here is blindly defending inefficient European production or supporting a protectionist approach to this highly sensitive matter . 
Trade defence reform can be considered , if it is to be made more effective and more transparent . 
The Green Paper can be a good starting point if all the stakeholders ' views are properly taken into consideration and if the Commission and the Council do not entrench themselves behind preconceived ideological positions . 
The decision-making process can also be improved and we need to ensure that decisions are taken by Member States based on the well-founded research carried out by independent Community bodies , rather than on the basis of national interests , or , if you prefer , national selfishness . 
It is therefore important to improve and reinforce trade defence instruments instead of watering them down . 
On the other side , a fresh approach can be made to less traditional threats to a balanced and free world trade . 
Practices such as so-called social or environmental dumping need also to be confronted and , when necessary , new means of tackling them should be seriously considered as a matter of Community interest . 
In this respect , would it not have been better to wait for the successful conclusion of multilateral negotiations before starting this exercise , which might weaken our position in Geneva ? 
Secondly , can Mr Mandelson explain why his services are already applying quite a few questionable innovations mentioned in the Green Paper , even before the public consultation has come to an end and without any discussions either before the Council , or before this Parliament ? 
Thirdly , since the new trade defence system proposed by the Commission assigns a role to all possible interested parties , including those not related to the production of goods falling under the scope of the investigation , do you not believe that the time has come to allow trade unions to lodge a complaint , as foreseen by the WTO anti-dumping agreement ? 
I conclude by formally asking Mr Mandelson to provide assurances that the European Parliament will be kept informed at all stages of the process and that the views expressed by its members will be fully taken into account when discussing this highly sensitive matter . 
They are small things so that we better understand and everybody can agree . 
author . - Madam President , my second oral amendment is very simple as well . 
It is simply to delete the word ` Communist ' before ` insurgents ' , and to replace ' 120 000 lives ' with '40 000 lives ' . 
That is a statement of fact . 
rapporteur . - Madam President , I would like to start by sincerely thanking the rapporteurs , the shadow rapporteurs , Commissioner Piebalgs and Ambassador Reinišová for the excellent cooperation during the first three months of this year . 
That cooperation has been the main engine of the successful outcome we will be voting on this week . 
Negotiations have been long , complex and sometimes tough , but I think we have managed to get an agreement that is satisfactory to all parties . 
Regarding the overall package , as it has been negotiated , Parliament can be proud of the final text . 
Indeed , our very strong first-reading agreement on ownership unbundling gave the negotiating team a lot of leverage during the talks . 
This has allowed us to obtain a much tighter regulatory framework , in particular in countries with the ITO model in place , where the competencies of national regulators will be increased , with independence from both governments and industry . 
This new role will reduce the risk of uncompetitive behaviour , especially in circumstances where vertically integrated companies abuse their position to stop investments in new capacity . 
Furthermore , agreement has been reached on the review clause that will allow us to check , in a few years , whether all models satisfy our goals of achieving a fully competitive and legalised market . 
Moreover , we have substantially increased the provisions on consumer protection with regard to , among other things , billing information and improved conditions for switching suppliers . 
Finally , another big success has been the introduction of a new provision in the third-country clause , whereby the certification of a transmission system operator ( TSO ) from a third country could now also be denied if the security of supply of the Union as a whole , or that of an individual Member State , other than the one where the certification is requested , is threatened . 
Concerning the electricity regulation , I would like to make clear that this regulation plays a crucial role , since it gives Member States the tools needed to significantly increase interconnection capacity within the Union by the development and establishment of binding network codes to be applied by all transmission system operators to exchanges , thus removing one of the main physical barriers to the completion of the internal electricity market . 
The agreed text also enhances the role of the Agency for the Cooperation of European Regulators in this process , in line with the first reading in the European Parliament . 
I must admit that Parliament hoped for a much more ambitious agency . 
However , we understand that this is only the first step in a long process of integration of regulatory frameworks . 
We have managed to include a new provision whereby the Agency will be able to propose the basic criteria to be included in the granting of exemptions for new interconnections . 
This is particularly relevant since it is one of the main obstacles investors in new capacity face when dealing with different Member States . 
I would like to finish by thanking all the technical staff , whose work has enabled us to obtain an agreement which , at the very beginning of the negotiations , we at times lost faith in reaching . 
author . - Mr President , this morning we will be voting on a joint motion for a resolution co-signed by four political groups on the situation of the Ashraf refugee camp in Iraq . 
Three thousand five hundred Iranian men and women , members of the democratic opposition to the fundamentalist regime in Iran , live there completely defenceless . 
In the last few weeks they have been under pressure and harassment by the faction of the Iraqi Government under the influence of the Iranian regime , and there is a high probability that at any moment a tragedy could happen that would parallel the ones we witnessed in the Balkans not so long ago . 
We all remember Srebrenica , and I have no doubt that no Member in this Chamber wants a second Srebrenica in Iraq . 
Our motion for a resolution is a call to alert public opinion all over the world before a disaster takes place . 
Unfortunately , some colleagues have tabled amendments that could increase the danger for the residents in Camp Ashraf and provide the Iranian regime and its proxies in Iraq with arguments to massacre them . 
I recently visited the camp myself and I assure you that the allegations included in the amendments tabled are absolutely unfounded . 
People in Ashraf are there on a volunteer basis . 
They are free to leave whenever they want and they live in the best friendly relations with the Iraqi population of the region . 
The intention of our motion is to protect these people . 
Nobody would understand - but if these amendments are adopted the result of the motion would be exactly the opposite . 
This is not a political issue , colleagues : it is purely humanitarian and it is very urgent . 
I beg you to vote against all amendments tabled to this joint motion supported by these four groups and support the motion as it has been agreed by these four groups that are of very different political stances . 
The lives of many innocent and harmless people depend on your vote . 
Please do not let them down . 
The central point is : the report cites a judgment at first instance which was repealed in the meanwhile . 
The judgment is invalid because the Munich regional court dismissed the action against Tobias Pflüger on 21 July 2009 in second and final instance . 
It is politically unacceptable that this report , which contains incorrect facts , was voted in the Plenary today ( 24 November 2009 ) . 
This kind of proceeding by the European Parliament creates the impression of supporting the persecution of political active persons , in this case , the Munich II Public Prosecution Service against the former Member of European Parliament , Tobias Pflüger . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , it is indeed necessary to establish a clear legal basis for combating all forms of violence against women . 
I also urge the Council and the Commission to take a decision on the full communitarisation of the European policy . 
None of the EU 's Member States are succeeding in addressing these problems on their own . 
Zero tolerance towards all forms of violence against women must become a top priority of all institutions throughout Europe . 
Parliament 's demand to the Council and the Commission for a targeted and more coherent EU policy plan to combat all forms of violence against women is a step in the right direction , as is the observatory on violence that has already been mentioned . 
Furthermore , I wish also to remind the Commission and the Council of my request on addressing violence against women in the gender-related dimension of human rights violations internationally , in particular , in the context of the bilateral association and international trade agreements in force and those under negotiation , as is also established in my report on feminicides , I also wish to ask the Commissioner if she can be a bit more concrete about this . 
Let me just finish by welcoming the presence in the gallery of our friends from the Congolese Association for Peace and Justice . 
They have given us these flowers in order to remind us every day that this is a common fight that we have to fight together and also with the people who are suffering and fighting in the field on this matter . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the final text of the resolution , among other reasons , because it kept the paragraphs related to the joint study related to the existence of secret detention centres , the necessary implementation of the recommendations of the Goldstone report and the ICC , and because it included also the amendment on Western Sahara tabled by GUE . 
I am also glad that the request made by Brok to have a separate vote on the paragraph dealing with the defamation of religion was rejected and that the paragraph stated as follows : 
We wanted to keep this sentence because we are of the opinion that we do not need a new legislation at the UN level which should deal with the concept of defamation of religions as we already have international standards , notably the protocol mentioned preventing discrimination of religious minorities . 
in writing . - I abstained in the final vote on the Neves Patrão report because it contained both positive and negative paragraphs . 
In one side , agrees that priority access should be given to those who fish in the most environmentally sustainable way , leading to fewer discards , more jobs and less energy use , and stresses that the right to fish must be based on environmental and social criteria , rather than on who caught the most fish 30 years ago . 
It is years of overfishing that has led to the current crisis , so it is absurd to let the same fleets continue the damage . 
Other positive points include making ecological sustainability the basic premise of the CFP and the recognition that EU fleets must no longer overfish in the waters of developing countries . 
Unfortunately , less constructive ideas are also in the report , such as a refusal to accept the destructive influence of subsidies . 
The report also declares the CFP to be the dominant policy in the EU , with environment and development policies being subservient to it . 
It is this ` preserve the fishing industry at all costs ' attitude that has led to the destruction of the marine ecosystem and the fishing communities that depend upon it . 
in writing . - I voted , together with my group , in favour of this report because it points out that the proposals made in this framework seek to make it easier for third-country nationals legally residing in a Member State to move in the Schengen area on the basis of a D long-stay visa issued by that Member State . 
They are intended to provide a response to situations where Member States are unable , for various reasons , to issue residence permits in time to third-country nationals residing in their territory , by extending the existing principle of equivalence between a residence permit and short-stay C visas to long-stay D visas . 
A long-stay visa will thus have the same effect as a residence permit as regards circulation in the Schengen area . 
This will make it possible for anyone in possession of a document showing that he is legally resident in a Member State to move freely in the Schengen area for short periods of no more than three months in any half year . 
in writing . - I finally decided to vote against the report because we failed in eliminating Article 10 from the text . 
The maintenance of this article is crucial because it calls for establishing systematic ` internal market tests ' in order to verify ex ante whether EU legislative proposals comply with all internal market rules . 
in writing . - I voted ` no ' to motion for a resolution RC7-0151 / 2010 submitted today for voting in Parliament for the same reason that we Greens did not vote for the Barroso II Commission : because of a lack of ambition . 
On this occasion , it is the turn of Parliament 's largest political groups to disappoint by adopting a resolution that is pure posture - it does not contain a single economic , social or environmental proposal . 
I believe that Europeans expect more from this Parliament . 
The EU Parliament was sidelined during the design of EU 2020 strategy . 
Now that Parliament belatedly has a chance to react , its biggest political groups conspire to deliver an empty resolution . 
This is a missed opportunity to get the European Parliament into the heart of the debate on substance and onto centre stage as an institution . 
The resolution was unanimously adopted . 
in writing . - I voted in favour , today , of motion for resolution on taxation of financial transactions , and am delighted that , for the first time , Parliament has demanded an assessment of the feasibility and impact of introducing a financial transaction tax at EU level . 
This is considerable progress . 
Pressure must now be exerted on the Commission to propose concrete steps . 
European citizens expect the costs of the financial crisis to be borne by those on the financial markets who caused it . 
We can not therefore be content with a minimalist solution in line with the US proposal , which would generate a few billion euro - a relatively small revenue considering the huge costs . 
Poverty reduction , the fight against climate change and tackling the financial crisis require additional revenue of several hundred billion euro . 
A cleverly designed financial transaction tax would provide such a revenue , while simultaneously curbing speculation on financial markets . 
in writing . - I supported resolution RC7-0154 / 2010 on the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement , and I am glad that a large majority of Parliament did so . 
Instead , the Commission is failing this litmus test of its compliance in informing Parliament under the terms of the Lisbon Treaty . 
The EU can not continue to negotiate on ACTA if the people are not allowed to take part in the process . 
It is also a totally absurd and unacceptable situation if MEPs , behind closed doors , have to ask the Commission about the content of the agreements we are supposed to vote on . 
Furthermore , the EU Parliament has shown that it does not accept secrecy and that it cherishes an open Internet for all . 
MEPs have also shown that the Parliament will not accept to be treated like a doormat . 
The Commission has been strongly urged to keep us fully and immediately informed on the ACTA negotiations . 
in writing . - In the end , I voted in favour of the common resolution on Generalised Tariff Preferences ( GPS ) ( RC7-0181 / 2010 ) although I am very sorry and upset that the Colombian Embassy has been very successful in convincing some of our colleagues to keep out almost all references to the need to investigate the human rights violations in Colombia and decide on the basis of the findings in order to decide whether to withdraw the tariff preferences for Colombian goods . 
in writing . - I have finally voted in favour of the report , known also as the annual report on the CFSP , mainly because two of our five amendments were adopted ( the one on the Transatlantic Legislators ' Dialogue and the one about the expectation that a strategic relationship between the EU and China will be developed ) . 
in writing . - I have finally abstained in the final vote on the annual report on the implementation of the European Security Strategy . 
This was the most complex and delicate report for us but we managed well . 
Two and a half of our 11 amendments were passed ( with a very important one calling on the HR/VP to overcome the imbalance between civilian and military planning capabilities ) . 
No other major changes were voted . 
in writing . - I have finally given my ` yes ' to this complex resolution ( RC7-0137 / 2010 ) on the Non-proliferation Treaty . 
The efforts of the PPE to delete the paragraph concerning nuclear free zones , including in the Middle East , was defeated . 
in writing . - I voted ` yes ' at the final vote on this resolution . 
It needs to be said that there has been an informal meeting with the Council and the Commission , where it became clear that Parliament could agree to the procedure . 
The draft report submitted to vote by Jo Leinen takes over the COM proposal and amendments have been tabled in the ENVI Committee . 
We Greens agree with the procedure . 
in writing . - I followed our rapporteur 's position on this topic , Giegold , and voted in favour of his report . 
The Annual Statement of the Commission on the euro area aims to stimulate a broad debate on euro area economic policies . 
More specifically , it presents the Commission 's views on the challenges the euro area economy has to face , on the one hand , and its analysis of the appropriate response of economic policies , on the other hand . 
in writing . - I am really glad this resolution was adopted ( I obviously voted in favour ) as it includes crucial statements in terms of promoting non-discrimination against the Roma population . 
More specifically , it once again calls on the European Commission to develop a comprehensive European Strategy for Roma Inclusion as the instrument for combating social exclusion and discrimination of Roma in Europe . 
in writing . - Contrary to our position ( I voted in favour ) , the qualified majority was not reached , and so the resolution to reject the Commission proposal and follow the advice of Parliament 's legal services has fallen . 
This means that the Schengen Borders Code will now be amended as proposed by the Commission under the comitology procedure , adding the annex , with non-binding measures on obligations during sea search and rescue operations , to the directive . 
We can only hope that the Commission will indeed use this as an opportunity to monitor more rigorously the operations coordinated by Frontex so we can avoid human tragedy and despair at sea . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this important report . 
The guidelines are the first step in the budget procedure , giving general guidance to the Secretary-General and the Bureau of the European Parliament for the subsequent step , the preliminary draft estimates , which are currently already before the Bureau . 
in writing . - I finally voted in favour of the resolution mainly because our Amendments 3 ( concerning opposition to standardisation rules for fruit and vegetables ) and 5 ( concerning mandatory place-of-origin labelling ) were adopted . 
in writing . - I am glad the report was adopted , although with a tight majority ( 283 votes in favour , 278 against and 15 abstentions ) , especially because some split votes requested by the EPP to weaken the report in certain paragraphs - taxing the banking system for global social justice , international levy on financial transaction , debt moratorium and debt cancellation - did not succeed . 
All these paragraphs were adopted by comfortable majority . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Simpson report on transportable pressure equipment , even though our amendment was not adopted . 
in writing . - I voted YES to the report . 
The important thing for us , however , has been that our two aims of ` linking costs for security screening and scanning with liberalised groundhandling services ' and ` intermodal fair treatment of financing security measures ' were both rejected by the EPP and ALDE ( RCV ) . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report even though our amendment was not adopted . 
in writing . - I voted against this report because we , the Verts/ALE Group , tabled six amendments and all were rejected . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the Van Dalen report on maritime transport strategy up to 2018 , although our amendment on including maritime transport in the ETS was rejected by large majority ( roll-call vote ) . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this report , together with my group . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the resolution given the fact that no damaging modifications were included . 
in writing . - I abstained on the final vote on this report . 
Though the report is by no means anything we could accept as a good contribution to the forthcoming EU-Latin America Summit in Madrid , we managed to keep or vote into the text some important aspects . 
The green highlights in the middle of a disappointing report are : the paragraph concerning the ruling by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights on feminicides ( the case of Campo Algodonero in Mexico ) was kept in the text , with 359 votes in favour , 235 against and 17 abstentions ; we succeeded in getting into the text that the European investment facility should in particular be used for projects contributing to combating climate change , such as local public transport , electric vehicles and the Yasuni-ITT project in Ecuador ( ` Keep the oil underground ' ) . 
All in all , 10 out of the 16 green/EFA amendments were adopted . 
Unfortunately , we lost all amendments which referred sceptically to the recently concluded free trade agreements and the association agreements under negotiation , and which warn against the risks of weakening the existing fragile regional integration efforts . 
Finally , our amendment asking for the phasing-out of mega-energy projects that heavily damage the environment was rejected , too . 
in writing . - The resolution was carried with a large majority . 
I abstained because of the wording in paragraph 6 on Roma people justifying Canada 's restrictive visa policy against Bulgaria , Romania and the Czech Republic . 
However , the Verts/ALE Group was successful in getting the following in the resolution regarding bluefin tuna and CITES : ` expresses its disappointment about the position of the Canadian Government at the most recent conference of CITES parties with regard to the extension of CITES Appendix 1 for bluefin tuna ' . 
in writing . - I abstained on the vote on the Swift resolution ( TFTP ) . 
It was adopted , however , by a very large majority ( no roll-call vote ) . 
The resolution can be seen nevertheless as a quite strong message in view of the EU-US negotiations for a new TFTP agreement after the rejection ( assent procedure ) last February of the former one even though in our view the text adopted today is a step backwards in comparison with the Parliament resolution adopted last September . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this resolution . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of the final text . 
The joint motion for resolution was adopted with only one small positive addition ( encouraging industrial reconversion in areas where cyanide mining is banned ) . 
The attempts to change the call for ` initiating a comprehensive ban ' to just doing an impact assessment was rejected by roll-call vote ( 161/416 ) , and so was the amendment to merely ` consider ' a ban ( roll-call vote : 246/337 ) . 
Our joint amendment with the S&D and GUE/NGL Groups to ` propose a ban ' with a date when it should be effective was defeated ( roll-call vote : 274/309 ) . 
The final resolution was adopted with 524/54/13 votes ( the ALDE Group abstaining , as the change to the impact assessment was not adopted ) . 
in writing . - I followed my group in voting in favour of this resolution , although our amendment on speeding up a review of type-approval legislation was not adopted . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this resolution , together with the big majority of the Chamber . 
in writing . - I voted in favour , of course , of this important report , crucial for preventing cancer . 
in writing . - We , Greens , voted in favour of this report . 
All the original parts of the text that some groups wanted to delete remained in . 
in writing . - We , as Greens , voted in favour of this report . 
The good new is that the amendment to delete the focus on nuclear safety was defeated . 
in writing . - In the final vote , I said in favour . 
The amendment by the ECR Group , which I voted against , was defeated . 
in writing . - That was an easy one . 
I voted in favour in the final vote . 
in writing . - I voted , of course , in favour of such an important resolution , and I supported very much the oral amendment proposed by my colleague Kiil-Nielsen to call on the Nigerian authorities to repeal the recent move by some Nigerian state governors to execute death row inmates . 
in writing . - I voted yes to these reports , as agreed also with the rapporteurs during our debates in the Committee on Civil Liberties . 
in writing . - I am very glad that today , we adopted the report led by my Catalan colleague from the S&D Group , Maria Badia i Cutchet , on the very important issue of seeing education and training as key competences for a changing world . 
in writing . - I am very glad of the fact that today , the European Parliament adopted its position in second reading on the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing Directive 86/613/EEC . 
Women play an essential role in sustaining self-employed businesses as owners and assisting spouses or life partners . 
I welcome Parliament 's decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment between women and men for self-employed workers and their spouses as an important part of EU legislation . 
in writing . - We , as greens , have abstained on the final vote of this report mainly because some of the key amendments proposed by the PPE , Liberals and EFD were adopted . 
In summary , all these amendments go in the direction of widening ` made in ' provisions . 
in writing . - We , as Greens , have voted in favour of the report by our colleague , Helga Trüpel . 
All amendments tabled to the report were rejected . 
The estimates of the EP for the year 2011 are thus forwarded to the Commission for inclusion in the draft budget proposal for 2011 . 
As to the assistants ' allowance second tranche increase for 2011 , this means that the appropriations are currently entered in reserve pending a detailed financial statement of all related costs . 
Parliament can come back to this issue at the first reading of the 2011 budget in September/October . 
As to the first tranche of the secretarial allowance increase for 2010 , this will be voted tomorrow as part of the Maňka report on the amending budget No 1/2010 . 
Here we are already in the budget procedure proper and the vote here will constitute the final result . 
in writing . - I am very glad the amendment proposed by the Socialists and Democrats Group has been rejected , which has allowed our group , Greens/EFA , to vote in favour of the Rühle report . 
in writing . - I voted enthusiastically in favour of Franziska Keller 's report on Policy Coherence for Development , and I am very glad it was adopted by a majority vote . 
I deplore the negative vote of the EPP and ECR groups . 
in writing . - I have signed and voted in favour of the Amendment rejecting the tranche , together with 16 other MEPs from my group . 
The reason is that I think it is of utmost importance to show that there is a substantial group of MEPs that do not agree with the increase of the assistance allowance in these times of economic crisis . 
At the final vote , however , I voted in favour of the Maňka report , amending Parliament 's budget for 2010 . 
in writing . - I have voted in favour of this report because I agree with the fact that we need to postpone the discharge decision until October . 
in writing . - I have supported the report lead by our colleague Mikolášik on standards of quality and safety of human organs intended for transplantation as one very urgent measure to improve the life expectation of more than 60 000 people in Europe waiting for a transplant . 
I hope this will make the possibility of getting an organ easier and safer . 
in writing . - I enthusiastically supported the amendment proposing to reduce the two September part-sessions to one . 
I am a big supporter of the idea of reducing the two EP seats to one , based in Brussels . 
Thus , I support any initiative willing to get rid of the Strasbourg seat . 
in writing . - I enthusiastically voted in favour of the resolution and I am especially glad that the oral amendment by my colleague had been adopted , i.e. to include ` indigenous people ' in the list of groups that need special attention . 
That is very sad news which we have to add to that special joke that some call elections in Burma . 
This is something that we can not remain silent on . 
I also understand that we have a strong responsibility in asking , urging and pushing India , Russia and China to stop selling weapons to the junta regime in Burma . 
There is also good news there . 
We have to welcome the European Union 's support for the global arms embargo , and , once again , we have to urge the European Member States to have a clear coalition on a consensus for such a ban . 
in writing . - The report concerns the mobilisation of the EGF to the benefit of the Valencia region in Spain ( EUR 6 598 735 ) , following 2 425 redundancies in 181 enterprises operating in the ` Manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products ' sector . 
in writing . - The report concerns the mobilisation of the EGF for the benefit of Irish workers ( EUR 2 570 853 ) following redundancies at Waterford Crystal and three of its suppliers operating in the crystal sector . 
in writing . - The report concerns the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to the benefit of the Castilla-La Mancha region in Spain ( EUR 1 950 000 ) , following 585 redundancies in 36 enterprises operating in the ` manufacture of wood and of products of wood and cork , except furniture ; manufacture of articles of straw and plaiting materials ' sector . 
The funds will go directly to affected workers . 
in writing . - The report concerns the mobilisation of EUR 1 110 000 from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund ( EGF ) to provide technical assistance at the initiative of the Commission . 
According to the Commission 's proposal , this amount is intended to cover the following activities : Activities linked to the EGF mid-term evaluation ( Art. 17 ) - monitoring and implementation studies , creation of a knowledge base , exchange of information and experience among Member States and Commission experts and auditors , development of networks , organisation of meetings of the Expert Group of Contact Persons of the EGF , organisation of seminars on the implementation of the fund , as well as information and publicity activities ( Art. 9 ) and further development of the EGF website and publications in all EU languages . 
The report was adopted in COBU without debate . 
We Greens supported it . 
in writing . - I want to salute and congratulate my colleague in the Greek Greens , Michail Tremopoulos , for the adoption today of his report on transparency and regional policy and its funding . 
The result , 629 votes in favour and only 6 against , shows the great job he has done on it . 
in writing . - Our Group , Greens/EFA , did not oppose the rapporteur 's priorities for the trilogue negotiations . 
We tabled some more detailed AM on the ` greening ' of structural funds , rural development and agricultural policy which , unsurprisingly , were all rejected , but which can be reintroduced for the more detailed 1st budgetary reading of Parliament in September . 
Green MEPs from other committees have co-signed AM in the name of their respective committees . 
Again , due to the approach of the rapporteur not to unnecessarily inflate the text , most of those got voted down . 
Otherwise , if at least one of the separate votes had been rejected , we Greens would have voted against the report . 
in writing . - We Greens have strongly supported this report by our socialist colleague , Badia i Cutchet . 
It will be an important new application of Internet technology . 
In the next 10-15 years , it is predicted that the Internet of Things will enter our daily lives . 
It uses RFID ( radio frequency identification ) technology to receive and transmit information wirelessly . 
It works with a tiny chip which has the capacity to store a lot of information about the object or the person on which it has been placed . 
This new technology will revolutionise and widen person-to-thing and thing-to-thing interaction . 
The innovation lies in the thing-to-thing relationship . 
The most commonly cited practical example of this is that of fridges which , if suitably programmed , will be able to detect any product past , or approaching , its use-by date . 
in writing . - I have voted against at the final vote of this report because it included the promotion of governmental interference with Internet governance , which is not exactly the Green position . 
in writing . - I am sorry the split vote requested by the Greens to take out the call for a European Patent Court did not work , so this is regrettably included . 
However , this report calls for the use of common patent tools , patent platforms and full right licences , and it stresses the importance of the quality of patents . 
in writing . - I am glad we adopted today the Cashman report on the MDG . 
As long as we guarantee effective aid , lives will be saved and poverty will be eradicated . 
In September 2010 , all United Nations Member States will come together in New York to discuss the progress made towards the MDGs and agree on actions to be taken to ensure that the goals are met . 
The report we adopted today is an extremely important document in terms of helping to define an ambitious EU position on this issue ahead of the September summit and putting political pressure on EU Member States . 
The endorsement of this report by an overwhelming majority of MEPs sends a clear and cross-party political message to the EU Heads of State or Government , before they meet on 17 June in Brussels , that the EU should remain strong and fully committed to the achievement of the MDGs , especially at a time of financial crisis . 
in writing . - The European Parliament today sent a clear signal that the future of independent Kosovo lies in EU integration . 
A clear majority of MEPs rejected a further discussion on the question of Kosovo 's status , bearing in mind that a statement from the International Court of Justice ( ICJ ) is due in July . 
With this resolution , Parliament is in favour of starting talks on visa liberalisation as soon as possible . 
The people of Kosovo should no longer be refused the freedom of travel which the EU will have probably granted to the other states in the region by the end of the year . 
My resolution calls for this necessary step to urgently be implemented to free the Kosovars from their regional as well as international isolation . 
in writing . - I voted in favour of this resolution on Albania because it confirms Parliament 's support for Albania 's European prospects , once the country has reached a level of political stability and reliability and the Copenhagen criteria are fully met . 
It notes the progress made in the reform process , stressing that further substantial efforts are needed in terms of the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law and of the sustainable development of the country . 
The issues of corruption and organised crime , and trafficking in human beings are among the most worrying situations in the country on which the resolution takes a stand . 
The report also deals with minority rights , the Roma , trade union rights and the social situation , women 's rights and consultation of the government with civil society on the draft laws and reforms undertaken . 
It encourages the development and use of renewable energy , public transport and environmental legislation . 
in writing . - The joint resolution was adopted as negotiated with 400 votes in favour and 166 against , despite the PPE Group requesting split votes on sexual and reproductive rights , which it does every time . 
It also shows that the PPE Group is divided on the issue . 
I am happy with the result , especially because all our considerations related to sexual and reproductive rights are in . 
in writing . - The draft regulation is intended to ensure that third-country nationals who are legally resident within the EU and are in a cross-border situation concerning at least two Member States are subject to the same rules for coordinating social security entitlements as EU nationals under the revised rules now represented in Regulation ( EC ) No 883/2004 and its implementing regulation ( Regulation ( EC ) No 987/2009 ) . 
Both these amendments have been incorporated into the position of the Council at first reading of 26 July 2010 as recitals 4 and 7 . 
Ireland has opted to participate , but the UK has chosen not to participate and will therefore continue to operate the existing rules . 
in writing . - Although the vote was secret , I have no problem in acknowledging that , as Lazaros Stavrou Lazarou fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 286 ( 1 ) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU , we have delivered a favourable opinion on his nomination as a Member of the Court of Auditors . 
in writing . - Although the vote was secret , I have no problem in acknowledging that , as Gijs M. de Vries fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 286 ( 1 ) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU , we have delivered a favourable opinion on his nomination as a Member of the Court of Auditors . 
in writing . - With this vote , the EP refuses to grant the Director of the European Police College discharge in respect of the implementation of the College 's budget for the financial year 2008 . 
The Council should now move swiftly to approve their inclusion . 
However , we are concerned about the reluctance of some Member States , notably France , to do so . 
Bosnia 's and Albania 's compliance with the EU criteria for lifting the visa requirement is actually better now than Serbia 's and Macedonia 's at the time they got visa-free travel one year ago . 
If the Council fails to follow the position of the European Parliament and European Commission , it would be a completely wrong signal to send to the citizens of Bosnia and Albania . 
in writing . - I hope the main actors in the field will take note of what we have just voted . 
We strongly condemn the mass rape and other human rights violations which took place between 30 July and 4 August on at least 500 women and children in North Kivu province by the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda ( FDLR ) , a Hutu rebel group , and the Mai Mai militia , as well as those in other regions of North and South Kivu . 
We call on all actors to step up the fight against impunity and for an immediate end to the violence and human rights abuses in the DRC , particularly in North Kivu . 
We stress the need for further efforts to put an end to the activity of local and foreign armed groups in the east of the DRC . 
We also call on the UN and the DRC Government to conduct an impartial and thorough investigation of the events , to ensure that those responsible for breaching human rights and international humanitarian law are held responsible and prosecuted in conformity with Congolese and international law . 
in writing . - Once again , the EP reiterates its long-standing opposition to the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances and emphasises , once again , that abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights . 
It condemns all executions wherever they take place and strongly calls on the EU and its Member States to enforce the implementation of the UN resolution on a universal moratorium on executions with a view to total abolition in all states which still practise the death penalty . 
in writing . - Although our first intention was to support the text , Amendment 1 to paragraph 16 , tabled by the EPP Group and the ECR Group , finally led our group to abstain . 
in writing . - The report sets out the EP position regarding the forthcoming revision of international standards and guidelines on capital and liquidity requirements for the banking system which are being adopted by the Basel Committee ( the international forum established by central banks and supervisors of the banking sector ) , as well as the G20 commitments on this matter . 
These standards are supposed to be transposed and adapted to the EU legal framework through a revision of the Capital Requirements Directive ( CRD ) . 
A Commission legislative proposal is scheduled during the first quarter of 2011 . 
in writing . - The report deals with the absence of health insurance in sub-Saharan Africa , which penalises the majority of the population in obtaining access to health care . 
So the main message of the report is to put in place health insurance , based on a solidarity system , to allow the population to have access to heath care . 
In this respect , the report calls on the Commission to support and encourage a health insurance system by bringing together public authorities , all stakeholders and donors . 
in writing . - We have supported the text which , among other things , notes the key role played by the European Social Fund ( ESF ) in improving employment and job opportunities , promoting the adaptation of workers ' skills to the demands of the labour market , and workers ' integration into the labour market , and reinforcing social inclusion . 
It draws attention to the four employment guidelines adopted by the European Parliament and welcomes the fact that the objectives include promoting employment and combating poverty in the context of integration/reintegration into working life through training . 
It also emphasises that substantive progress towards achieving the Europe 2020 targets and objectives , in particular , in the field of employment and social affairs , is essential if the strategy is to be credible . 
We have an opportunity . 
The Greens/EFA have voted in favour of the proposal . 
In its resolution , the EP requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF ; recalls the institutions ' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF , providing one-off , time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis ; and emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers who have been made redundant into the labour market . 
in writing . - Whereas the Union 's financial assistance to workers made redundant should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible , in accordance with the Joint Declaration of the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission adopted during the conciliation meeting on 17 July 2008 , and having due regard for the IIA of 17 May 2006 in respect of the adoption of decisions to mobilise the EGF ; whereas the Netherlands has requested assistance in respect of cases concerning 512 redundancies in NXP Semiconductors Netherlands , operating in the electronics sector in the NUTS II regions of Gelderland and Eindhoven ; whereas the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation , the EP requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF ; recalls the institutions ' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF , providing one-off , time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis ; and emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market . 
The EP has voted in favour of calling on the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF . 
The application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation . 
As a Catalan , I am glad that Parliament agreed to call on the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF , and to recall the institutions ' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF , providing one-off , time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis . 
Parliament also emphasised the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market ; 
in writing . - The Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the North-East Atlantic fisheries , to which the EU is a contracting party , was approved by Council Decision 81/608/EEC and entered into force on 17 March 1982 . 
The aim of this proposal is to update EU legislation transposing NEAFC 's control and enforcement scheme . 
To allow the new NEAFC scheme to be implemented , the proposal envisages the subsequent repeal of Council Regulation ( EC ) No 2791/1999 of 16 December 1999 , which implemented the first scheme adopted by NEAFC in 1998 . 
The priority objective of NAFO is to contribute through consultation and cooperation to the optimum utilisation and rational management and conservation of the fishery resources of the Convention Area NAFO and the promotion of ideas for international collaboration to improve the sustainable management of marine resources in the high seas based on the scientific research fundamentals . 
The Contracting Parties to the Convention adopted the , ` Amendment to the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries ' , ( the Amendment ) at the Annual Meetings of NAFO in 2007 ( English version ) and in 2008 ( French version ) . 
The amendment revises the convention comprehensively with the primary purpose of making it more in line with other regional conventions and international instruments and of incorporating modern concepts on fisheries management . 
in writing . - This was a crucial report and I am glad the EP has adopted it , mainly because it points out the gendered nature of precarious employment and recalls the shift in the labour market from standard to non-standard types of employment , making it necessary to prevent non-standard types of employment from becoming precarious work ; considers that , in order to combat these problems , the Member States and social partners must be asked to align to a large extent their legislative and contractual rules on standard work and atypical work , so as to prevent the most convenient and least expensive forms of work from taking precedence , taking into account , however , the risks of a possible increase in undeclared work ; and urges the Council and the Commission to identify the characteristics of precarious employment in the guidelines for the Member States ' employment policies and in the new gender equality strategy . 
On ` Legislative procedure and planning : mutual cooperation ' it includes improving the involvement of Parliament , the review of all pending proposals at the beginning of a new Commission 's term of office , taking due account of the views of the Parliament , and the commitment by the Commission to report on the concrete follow-up to any legislative initiative requests pursuant to Article 225 TFEU . 
It also sets out the obligations to provide information and requirement for the Commission to be present in Parliament . 
in writing . - The Rangel report points out the most important achievements for the European Parliament contained in the revised framework agreement with regard to the following : 
On ` Legislative procedure and planning : mutual cooperation ' , it includes improving the involvement of Parliament , the review of all pending proposals at the beginning of a new Commission 's term of office , taking due account of the views of the Parliament , and the commitment by the Commission to report on the concrete follow-up to any legislative initiative requests pursuant to Article 225 TFEU . 
On ` Parliamentary scrutiny ' , it includes new rules of participation of Commissioners in election campaigns , the Commission 's obligation to seek Parliament 's opinion when it intends to revise the Code of Conduct , and nominees for the post of executive directors have to come before the responsible parliamentary committees for a hearing , 
It also sets out the obligations to provide information and the requirement for the Commission to be present in Parliament . 
in writing . - It has been a bumpy ride , but thanks to Parliament 's efforts , the EU 's External Action Service now has the potential to be the driving force for a more effective and more legitimate EU foreign policy . 
We welcome that key Green concerns - such as on gender balance and common training to create an ` esprit de corps ' - have been largely addressed , and that Parliament will have greater democratic scrutiny on the functioning of the EEAS , notably through the introduction of individual budget lines for the EU 's major overseas operations . 
The EP also succeeded in safeguarding the Community method and , thanks to Green pressure , development priorities . 
in writing . - We have adopted with a big majority the compromise package reflecting the Green position , to which our group has substantially contributed . 
in writing . - The setting up of the European External Action Service ( EEAS ) necessitates an amendment of the 2010 budget and of the proposed 2011 budget . 
A new Section X has to be created in the budget and the 2010 budget has to be modified in order to provide 100 additional posts in the EEAS establishment plan and a financial envelope for financing an additional 70 contract staff . 
The bulk of resources necessary will simply be transferred from the sections of the European Council , Council and Commission . 
The prevailing feeling in the Committee on Foreign Affairs ( AFET ) is that the HR , Baroness Ashton , has not entirely lived up to the promises she made to the EP on the setting up of the EEAS . 
AFET considers that the EP should be consulted on staffing priorities within the service ( e.g. when it comes to geographical balances ) and that the issue of gender balance would be better addressed in the recruitment procedure for the EEAS . 
From a Green/EFA point of view , the fact that until now , Baroness Ashton has not transferred the Commission staff in DG RELEX dealing with peacebuilding and crisis response to the EEAS is considered a major shortcoming , especially as the HR has given messages of assurance to the EP on this transfer . 
in writing . - Due to changing trade arrangements , notably the liberalisation of trade within the WTO , the reduction of the preferential margin for ACP banana-exporting countries has had a negative impact . 
The European Commission proposes therefore to support the main ACP banana-exporting countries by establishing Banana Accompanying Measures ( BAM ) with a budget of EUR 190 million over 4 years ( 2010-2013 ) . 
The objective of this assistance is to help ACP banana exporters to launch adjustment programmes . 
Although the banana question is a long-standing issue , financing the BAM remains problematic . 
The Commission and the Council did not integrate it into Heading 4 of the multiannual financial framework ( MFF ) for 2007-2013 , and the Committee on Development considers that the proposal is not compatible with the ceiling for Heading 4 of the MFF and asks the Commission to make substantial amendments or replace it with another text . 
in writing . - This year 's budget debate again underlines the need to agree a meaningful system of own resources for the EU . 
The annual squabbling over the budgets between the European institutions leads to chaotic decision making and creates an acrimonious diversion , which could be so easily avoided through an own resources system , such as allocating part of the revenue from an EU financial transaction tax , a tax on aviation fuel or a carbon tax to fund the EU budget . 
Despite this , today 's vote broadly strikes a balance between responding to the extra demands created by the Lisbon Treaty , whilst limiting the growth in the EU budgets , in response to current budgetary difficulties . 
in writing . - Given that late payment is a phenomenon with numerous and interlinked causes , it can only be combated with a wide range of complementary measures . 
Parliament therefore considers that a purely legalistic approach with the aim of improving remedies for late payment is necessary , but not sufficient . 
The Commission 's ` hard ' approach with a focus on harsh sanctions and disincentives must be broadened to include ` soft ' measures with a focus on providing positive incentives to combat late payment . 
In addition , practical measures , such as the use of electronic invoices , should be encouraged in parallel with the implementation of the directive . 
in writing . - The global economic crisis has challenged the current mechanisms of economic policy coordination in the EU and has revealed some of its weaknesses . 
The functioning of the Economic and Monetary Union has been under particular pressure , due to earlier failures to comply with the underlying rules and given that existing surveillance and coordination procedures have not been comprehensive enough . 
This INI report intends to set out the position of Parliament as regards the legislative package on economic policy coordination ( six proposals , including four under Codecision ) released by the Commission two weeks earlier . 
The Council 's position is foreseen for the end of October through the final report of the Van Rompuy task force on economic governance . 
in writing . - With this vote , Parliament has followed AFET 's position in welcoming the Commission 's proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council amending Regulation ( EC ) No 1717/2006 establishing an Instrument for Stability , as part of a wider review of the external financial assistance of the EU . 
Among other things , AFET , and now Parliament as a whole , agrees that a revision of Article 3 ( 2 ) ( i ) and Article 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the original regulation are necessary in order to bring it into line with the ruling of the European Court of Justice of 20 May 2008 , which found that measures against the proliferation of small arms and light weapons may be implemented by the Community under its development policy . 
The Presidency , on behalf of the Council and along with the Commission and Parliament , is invited to develop a ` Declaration on a European Consensus in support of EU Action on SALW ' , which takes into account the respective competences of all institutions . 
in writing . - Parliament has closely scrutinised the way the provisions of the DCI are implemented ever since it came into force in 2007 . 
In the exercise of its right of scrutiny under the Comitology procedure , Parliament has raised a number of problems and objections regarding the way the Commission implemented the instrument , and the interpretation it gave to some of its core provisions . 
Parliament , however , did not find any major shortcomings in the provisions of the instrument as such . 
One of Parliament 's major concerns , the propensity of the Commission to finance under the geographical programmes measures not eligible , under the internationally accepted criteria of the OECD/DAC , as Official Development Assistance ( ODA ) , has recently been solved by the Commission when it proposed , at Parliament 's request , the creation of a new legal basis for such measures under the Instrument for Cooperation with Industrialised Countries . 
in writing . - In its legislative proposal for the mid-term review of the Development Cooperation Instrument ( DCI ) and the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights ( EIDHR ) , the Commission only proposes one technical amendment allowing costs related to taxes , duties and other charges related to the financing of actions under the DCI and EIDHR in beneficiary countries , to be financed from the budget of the instruments . 
So far , DCI and EIDHR have been the only financial instruments not to provide for an exception to the principle of the non-eligibility of such costs . 
The amendment will allow for the financing of these costs in exceptional circumstances , thus creating greater flexibility in the implementation of programmes and projects . 
The proposed amendment by the Commission should therefore be welcomed . 
in writing . - The objective of Community financing under Council Regulation ( EC ) No 1934/2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories ( hereinafter ` ICI Regulation ' ) is to support economic , financial and technical cooperation , as well as research and academic exchange falling within Community 's spheres of competence . 
As the Committee responsible for ` Union 's ... external economic relations ' , including `` financial , economic and trade relations with third countries '' ( i.e. with both developing and non-developing countries ) , the Committee on International Trade ( INTA ) was also the lead Committee at the time of adoption of original ICI Regulation enabling INTA not only to analyze this Commission proposal in detail , but also to look at a broader historical and institutional context . 
The Commission 's proposal for amending the ICI Regulation/2 ) is proposed in order to significantly extend the geographical scope of the ICI Regulation to include cooperation with developing countries ( listed in the Annex of the proposal ) and the overall financial framework would be significantly increased in relation thereto . 
Even though the changes proposed by the Commission may seem few in formal terms , they are substantial as all current references to partner countries ( so far covering only industrialised and high-income countries and territories ) , including their qualitative assessment , would include also the listed developing countries . 
in writing . - The aim of the Commission proposal is to support the main banana-exporting countries in Africa , the Caribbean and the Pacific ( ACP ) via banana accompanying measures ( BAMs ) , which are intended to last four years ( 2010-2013 ) . 
Although measures for which funding was provided in the past ( special framework of assistance , SFA ) were designed to help the ACP countries adjust to changing trends in international competition , we are still faced with similar problems today , and ` the sustainability of ACP banana exports remains fragile ' . 
We must therefore look at the issue from the point of view of development aid and combating poverty . 
Our job in the EP has been to check that the proposed measures seek to attain the main objective of the EU 's development policy , which is to reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty . 
in writing . - The legislative resolution passed with a surprisingly wide majority of 525 in favour , 49 against , and 44 abstentions . 
This was mainly due to the fact that , at the last minute , the rapporteur introduced an amendment limiting the time of the regulation to 5 years , subject to further approval . 
This was mainly in response to the pressure in Council against the entire exercise . 
Because of that amendment being carried by 393 to 216 , Greens/EFA voted abstention on the final amended resolution . 
However , Greens/EFA voted in favour of the legislative resolution . 
In a big surprise , an EDF amendment asking to introduce semi-finished products in the requirement for origin-marking was carried by 328 to 219 . 
On the negative side , some product groups were kicked out from the marking requirement , especially pharmaceuticals and glasses and lenses . 
in writing . - The purpose of this report is to contribute to the ongoing debate on the review of the European standardisation system . 
The European Commission is currently working on a ` Standardisation Package ' , which will include a legislative proposal aimed at revising the existing legal framework on European standardisation and an umbrella Communication which will set the standardisation policy for the next decade . 
In preparation for its ` Standardisation Package ' , the Commission has asked key experts to make strategic recommendations . 
These experts have been brought together in the Expert Panel for the Review of the European Standardisation System ( EXPRESS ) , which delivered its recommendations in February 2010 in the form of a report entitled ` Standardisation for a competitive and innovative Europe : a vision for 2020 ' . 
The Commission has also undertaken a public consultation on the review of the European standardisation system ( held from 23 March to 21 May 2010 ) and commissioned an Impact Assessment Study ( 9 March 2010 ) . 
The forthcoming ` Standardisation Package ' will also build on the White Paper of 3 July 2009 on Modernising ICT Standardisation in the EU - The Way Forward . 
in writing . - With the adoption of this report , the EP requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF and , overall , recalls the institutions ' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF , providing one-off , time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis . 
in writing . - The Greens/EFA voted against this report , although Green MEPs voted in favour of the Gauzès report in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs . 
The reason why they did so was that , by the time of the vote in that Committee , the text was by far more ambitious that the final agreement reached with the Council . 
The text is , admittedly , a first step in the right direction since hedge funds were not previously obliged to be transparent . 
However , the version issued by the Council does not satisfy Parliament on some of the key demands , and weakens some of the arrangements foreseen by the Commission in its original proposal . 
in writing . - We have supported this text , with the main purpose of this amendment of Regulation EC 539/2001 being to exempt holders of Taiwanese passports from visa requirement for entering the EU . 
As was detailed very precisely in the Commission proposal , the principle of the visa exemption is certainly to be supported , given that the level of economic development , education and democratic governance of Taiwan is comparable to the OECD countries in the region - South Korea and Japan . 
After decades of tension , the political climate between the present Taiwanese Government and the People 's Republic of China is currently very positive , as the establishment of direct flights and the unprecedented level of cross-Straits business and personal exchanges show , thus providing a window of opportunity for a trouble-free implementation of the measure . 
in writing . - In 2009 , the EU adopted a programme to aid economic recovery for Europe ( EEPR ) by granting EUR 3.98 billion for energy projects by the end of 2010 . 
That Community financing was allocated to three sub-programmes in the fields of gas and electricity infrastructure projects , offshore wind electricity projects ( OWE ) , and carbon capture and storage projects ( CCS ) . 
Thanks to the Greens , we managed to get a provision which would allow to use the uncommitted funds for the creation of a dedicated financial instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable initiatives , in particular in urban settings . 
In order to foster a large number of decentralised investments , municipal , local and regional public authorities will be the beneficiaries . 
in writing . - I abstained at the final vote . 
Among other things , one of the main positive aspects ( on which not all our group agree ) of this resolution that should be emphasised is in paragraph 29 , where the EP states that the international undertakings given regarding the MDGs , the achievement of many of which is lagging behind schedule , can only be honoured if the industrialised countries maintain their commitments and set aside 0.7 % of their GDP for overseas development aid by 2015 . 
Parliament calls , therefore , on the EU and the US , and on other international donors , to honour their commitments and to take measures to speed up progress towards meeting the MDG targets by 2015 ; 
in writing . - Several groups agreed on this text that basically recalls Parliament 's determination to fight terrorism and organised and transnational crime , and , at the same time , its firm belief in the need to protect civil liberties and fundamental rights , including the rights to privacy , informational self-determination and data protection . 
Parliament reaffirms that necessity and proportionality , as set out in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union , are key principles in ensuring effectiveness in the fight against terrorism . 
in writing . - With the adoption of this text , Parliament states that the Innovation Union initiative is the most significant to date and a concrete attempt at an integrated European innovation policy , whose success depends upon well-coordinated cooperation at regional , national and European level , with the maximum involvement of all relevant players at each level . 
The European Innovation Partnerships represent an innovative concept aiming to create synergies between existing and , where necessary , new European and Member State initiatives in the field of innovation and maximise and accelerate the delivery of results and benefits to society . 
Parliament therefore welcomes the first proposed topic for European Innovation Partnership , on active and healthy ageing , and the suggested approach by the Commission to first run a pilot project testing the most suitable format for these partnerships before launching any further ones , and calls on the Commission , when running the first pilot project on active and healthy ageing , to include social innovation which leads to a better quality of life , prevents disease , improves social networks within public sectors and among social partners , and promotes the introduction of new technologies supporting the quality of life . 
in writing . - By adopting this resolution , Parliament emphasises the need to maintain a balance between the three dimensions of the OSCE , developing them coherently and comprehensively and building on what has already been achieved . 
It emphasises that the strengthening of the OSCE should not come at the price of weakening the existing institutions and mechanisms or affecting their independence , when they have not yet been reformed or alternatives have not yet been agreed , particularly as regards the work of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights ( ODIHR ) . 
Finally , it calls on the OSCE to further strengthen its capacity to ensure respect for and the implementation of principles and commitments undertaken by its participating states in all three dimensions , inter alia , by enhancing follow-up mechanisms . 
in writing . - We Greens have supported the text because paragraph 99 ( on private/capital-funded systems ) was deleted , and because the rest of the text has taken some positive Green points on board . 
For instance , measures concerning the retirement age should be based on the needs of the persons concerned ; periods spent working , learning , caring or volunteering are complementary and provide valuable experience at all ages ; there is a need to combat age discrimination and to set country specific targets for access to training and lifelong learning for older workers , broken down by age group and gender . 
Older people 's employability also depends on autonomy and individual choice for workers and a better work-life balance . 
In order to avoid a disproportionate burden on women because of an increased demand for care in an ageing society , labour and care should be rendered compatible in all Member States and equally distributed between women and men . 
in writing . - We in the Greens/EFA Group supported the report mainly because it includes some of our key issues such as civil society organisations . 
See the Buzek report on the Seventh Framework Programme , Amendment 278 ( Annex I , Chapter IV - Capacities - Research for the benefit of SMEs - Activities - paragraph 1 , indent 2a ( new ) ) : support civil society organisations or networks of civil society organisations in commissioning research from research performers ; open standards ; decrease loss of time for researchers in bureaucratic processes ; simplification is essential for all small actors , including SMEs , but civil society organisations should not be forgotten ; open science and repositories ( reference to the Berlin Declaration ) ; seek complementarities between the FP and the CIP ; international cooperation with developing countries may require specific rules . 
in writing . - As Greens , we have participated in negotiations on a joint resolution on this topic . 
However , the resolution refers to the demands adopted in the Bové report and calls for measures to curb speculation and price volatility , as well as pointing out the key demand of the Häusling report for a crop protein plan to reduce dependence on protein crop imports ( mainly GM soy ) and the specific needs of extensive grassland beef production . 
in writing . - We have supported this resolution based on the fact that the Commission proposes to mobilise the European Solidarity Fund in favour of Ireland on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement ( IIA ) of 17 May 2006 . 
In parallel to this proposal , the Commission has presented a draft amending budget ( DAB No 8/2010 of 24 September 2010 ) in order to enter in the 2010 budget the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations as foreseen in point 26 of the IIA . 
in writing . - Our group has supported this text and the line taken by the rapporteur in the sense that it is in favour of the proposal presented , while considering that several points need to be taken into account for the implementation of the regulation . 
The rapporteur thinks a regular impact assessment should have been carried out and that the period of extension of the monopoly should not have surpassed 2013 , the date of the entry into force of the new CAP . 
However , given the importance for the small-scale distilleries of their participation in the monopoly and the need for further transition towards the market , and given the fact that reports presented do not demonstrate an infringement of competition in the single market , the rapporteur is ready to support the proposal . 
Our group has voted in favour . 
in writing . - Very easy vote , this one . 
We simply had to agree , and we did . 
in writing . - Having regard to the draft Council Decision ( 11365/2010 ) , the draft agreement between the European Union and the government of the Faroes on Scientific and Technological Cooperation , associating the Faroe Islands to the Union 's Seventh Framework Programme for Research , Technological Development and Demonstration Activities ( 2007-2013 ) ( 05475/2010 ) , and to the request for consent submitted by the Council in accordance with Article 186 and Article 218 ( 6 ) , second subparagraph , point ( a ) , of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ( C7-0184 / 2010 ) . 
Having regard as well to Rules 81 , 90 ( 8 ) and 46 ( 1 ) of Parliament 's Rules of Procedure , and to the recommendation of the Committee on Industry , Research and Energy , we have agreed to the following : 
in writing . - The Fisheries Agreement between the European Community and the Solomon Islands expired last October . 
The new Protocol is valid from 9 October 2009 to 8 October 2012 and is already provisionally applied pending the European Parliament consent procedure . 
According to Article 43 paragraph 2 and Article 218 paragraph 6 ( a ) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union , the European Parliament can either consent or decline to consent . 
Although the majority of the EP has voted in favour , our group , the Greens/EFA , has voted against . 
in writing . - We are in the majority in Parliament voting in favour of this text , which states that the European Parliament , having regard to the Commission proposal to the Council , having regard to Article 113 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union pursuant to which the Council consulted Parliament ( C7-0173 / 2010 ) , having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee , having regard to Rule 55 of its Rules of Procedure , and having regard to the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , approves the Commission proposal as amended ; calls on the Commission to alter its proposal accordingly , in accordance with Article 293 ( 2 ) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ; calls on the Council to notify Parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by Parliament ; asks the Council to consult Parliament again if it intends to amend the Commission proposal substantially ; instructs its President to forward its position to the Council , the Commission and the national parliaments . 
in writing . - This report evaluates the 2009 annual report of the European Central Bank ( ECB ) and the work done by the ECB during that year . 
As the statement of the European Parliament on the ECB annual report 2008 had been delayed due to the elections in 2009 , not much time has passed since the European Parliament 's last statement on ECB activity . 
The report on 2008 dealt mainly with the performance of the ECB in the financial and economic crisis . 
Unfortunately , the situation has not changed since then . 
Still , economic , financial and , to an increasing extent , political actions are widely dominated by the crisis . 
The ECB annual report 2009 therefore still deals primarily with the ECB 's reaction to the crisis , the exit strategy and governance topics . 
in writing . - We abstained on this report because we keep seeing too much effort being focused on military capacities , and too little on the civilian and prevention activities . 
in writing . - The dispute among the institutions centres around what part of the fisheries management plan is related to setting the TAC , and therefore is the sole responsibility of the Council . 
A few Member States think that Council alone should decide the whole plan , but that view is not widely supported , not even by the Council 's legal service . 
Most feel that the mathematical rule that sets the TAC should be decided by the Council , rather than by codecision . 
Finally , after almost a year of dithering on the part of the Council , the Committee on Fisheries decided to proceed to a full vote in committee to put pressure on the Council to move . 
in writing . - The detailed technical rules for fishing in the Baltic Sea ( mesh size , closed areas , etc. ) are included in Council Regulation 2187/2005 . 
However , prior to the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty , the Council often took short-cut measures to adopt such rules quickly by including them in the regulation on quotas . 
For instance , Council Regulation ( EC ) No 1226/2009 fixing quotas for 2010 has provisions related to technical measures , namely Article 7 on the prohibition of highgrading , and in Annex III on the restrictions on fishing for flounder and turbot . 
After Lisbon , this is no longer legal , so Council Regulation 2187/2005 must be amended . 
That is the sole purpose of this proposal , and it was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Fisheries . 
in writing . - The Commission 's proposal deals with amendments to a regulation on the use of alien species in aquaculture based on the IMPASSE project , which focused on the environmental impact of alien species . 
In the light of the above results , the Commission is proposing that introductions and translocations involving the use of closed aquaculture facilities be exempted from the permit requirement , thus dispensing operators from that administrative formality . 
As the rapporteur notes , the introduction of alien species is one of the main reasons why ecosystems are being thrown out of kilter and , along with the destruction of natural habitats , one of the biggest contributory factors implicated in global biodiversity loss . 
With this in mind , the rapporteur tabled an amendment to specify that ` closed aquaculture facilities ' were limited to those on land , in order to reduce the possible survival of escapees . 
Other amendments concerned the comitology provisions . 
in writing . - Today 's vote is in conflict with the EU 's economic , energy and climate change interests . 
Subsidising uncompetitive coal mines is a waste of billions of euro of public money , particularly in the context of current pressures on public finances . 
Prolonging operational aid to coal mines fails to address the legitimate concerns of coal workers for their futures . 
Instead , it risks delaying the transition towards a green economy - with a future energy sector based on energy efficiency and renewable energy - which will ensure the creation of thousands of new , sustainable jobs in former coal producing regions . 
in writing . - This is a good regulation calling mainly for the use of every possible means to nurture a European judicial culture , particularly through legal education and training . 
Concerning the different points of draft amending budget No 8/2010 , the report that we adopted refers to the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund . 
The European Commission proposed on 24 September 2010 a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund , which is based on the provisions of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 . 
The conditions of the eligibility to the Fund are detailed here and as well as in Council Regulation No 2012/2002 establishing the EUSF . 
It is important to note that the objective of the Fund is not the compensation for private damage but to repair infrastructure and it is a tool of refinancing . 
in writing . - This report refers to the draft Council decision on the conclusion of a Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States , of the one part , and the Republic of Moldova , of the other part , on a Framework Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Moldova on the general principles for the participation of the Republic of Moldova in Union programmes . 
By voting in favour , the EP consents to the conclusion of the Protocol . 
in writing . - We decided we would vote in favour or abstain depending on the result of the third part of Amendment 31 , which ensures that pharmaceutical companies can only provide information material to health professionals for their own use , not for patients via healthcare professionals . 
This was key for the Greens/EFA . 
As it was finally adopted , we decided to support the report in the final vote . 
in writing . - This report welcomes the proposal by the Commission on information to patients on prescription-only medicines-0663 ) . 
in writing . - The European Parliament just narrowly failed to adopt a resolution demanding that the Commission clarify and assess the consequences of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ACTA . 
The numbers were 306 in favour , 322 against , with 26 abstentions . 
The resolution had been put forward by the Green Group ( including the Pirate Party ) , the Social Democrats , the Liberals and the left . 
Instead , an alternative resolution by the Christian Democrat group EPP and the Conservative group was carried . 
This resolution basically welcomes what the negotiators have been doing so far , without placing any specific demands on the Commission for further clarifications or assessments . 
This was a defeat , but it is far from the final word on the issue . 
The resolution has no formal effect at all , but is merely an expression of how Parliament feels . 
The deciding vote will ( probably ) be some time early next year , when Parliament will be asked to give its consent to the agreement . 
If we get a No vote then , the agreement will be scrapped . 
The vote today was a reminder that we will have to continue working hard to get more information on the effects of ACTA so that the European Parliament can make an informed decision in the final consent vote . 
in writing . - As to the 2011 budget proper , the Council indicated that the level of payment appropriations should not go beyond an increase of 2.91 % compared to the 2010 budget . 
Especially for the Member States that had voted against the majority Council position budget in August , this was the absolute red line . 
Parliament in trialogues on the 2011 budget had taken a step towards being willing to accept this position on payments , after getting assurances concerning extra commitments over and above the ceiling via the flexibility instrument both in Heading 1A ( competitiveness ) and Heading 4 ( external action ) so as to be able to cover for reinforced policy priorities in Heading 1A ( notably , lifelong learning ) and extra needs in Heading 4 ( notably Palestine ) . 
Also , as regards ITER ( unanimity needed in Council ) , it seemed that a compromise would guarantee an extra 1.4 billion for the years 2012 and 2013 by using unused margins under the different headings from the year 2010 and - but that part was still under discussion , as it was linked to guaranteeing better flexibility mechanisms under the Multiannual Financial Framework Regulation - redeployments from the seventh framework programme for research and development . 
in writing . - The Commission proposes to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Portugal and France under point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management ( IIA ) . 
This proposal and the corresponding draft amending budget ( DAB No 8/2010 ) are still in the process of being adopted by the two arms of the budgetary authority . 
In parallel to the proposal to mobilise the Solidarity Fund in favour of Portugal and France , the Commission has presented a draft amending budget ( DAB No 9/2010 of 13 October 2010 ) in order to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2010 budget as provided in point 26 of the IIA . 
in writing . - According to Article 37 ( 1 ) of the Financial Regulation , the Commission may present draft amending budgets if there are ` unavoidable , exceptional or unforeseen circumstances ' . 
On this aspect , and regarding the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund , the Commission proposes to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Portugal and France on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management ( IIA ) . 
The IIA allows the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund within the annual ceiling of EUR 1 billion . 
The conditions for eligibility to the fund are detailed here as well as in Council Regulation No 2012/2002 establishing the EUSF . 
It is important to note that the objective of the fund is not to compensate private damage but to repair infrastructure and is a tool for refinancing . 
In 2010 , so far , only one proposal to mobilise the Solidarity Fund has been submitted by the Commission , a proposal of 24 September 2010 to mobilise EUR 13.02 million following severe flooding in Ireland in November 2009 . 
in writing . - With the adoption of this text , the EP has requested the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF . 
It emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market . 
Finally , it stresses that , in accordance with Article 6 of the EGF Regulation , it should be ensured that the EGF supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers into employment , and reiterates that assistance from the EGF must not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements , nor measures restructuring companies or sectors . 
in writing . - In 2001 , the Commission presented a proposal for a directive concerning the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents . 
In this proposal , it was originally foreseen that refugees could qualify for long-term resident status after five years of legal and continuous residence in a Member State . 
In the course of the negotiations , it was nevertheless decided by the Member States to exclude refugees from the scope of the directive . 
Subsequently , in the Joint Statement from the Council and the Commission , made at the JHA Council of 8 May 2003 , it was agreed that the Commission would table a proposal for a directive on the extension of long-term resident status to refugees and persons under subsidiary protection . 
This proposal was tabled by the Commission in June 2007 using the same legal base as the act it was supposed to amend , i.e. Articles 63 ( 3 ) ( a ) and 63 ( 4 ) of the EC Treaty . 
in writing . - The enlargement of the European Union to 25 Member States in 2004 and then to 27 in 2007 was an opportunity for the Union to create a new framework for cooperation with its neighbours to the east and the south . 
The European Union thus engaged in an enlarged neighbourhood policy extending as far as the countries of the South Caucasus region and aimed at deepening its relations with the countries located at the EU 's external borders , promoting their security , stability and development and preventing new divisions on the European continent . 
Europe thus signalled its growing interest in the States of the South Caucasus and it must today pursue its engagement with the countries of this region as an area to be protected near its new frontiers . 
The process of deepening relations between the EU and the countries of the South Caucasus , including Georgia , will undoubtedly also help to improve the exercise of justice and respect for freedom . 
in writing . - The multiplication of major disasters ( natural/man-made ) outside the European Union in recent years has led to increased calls to improve the effectiveness of the existing EU disaster-response capacity . 
If the EU disaster-response capacity has constantly evolved since the establishment of the Community civil protection mechanism in 2001 , the rapporteur believes that much more needs to be done to ensure a coordinated , coherent and visible EU response . 
This need for a more coherent response was also highlighted in the latest communication from the Commission on ` reinforcing the Union 's disaster response capacity ' , which dates back to March 2008 . 
This communication was supposed to be a first step on the road to a comprehensive and integrated EU response . 
It included an action plan with a number of practical actions to gradually build up more integrated coordination between the various instruments for disaster response . 
Today , we have Parliament 's response to that problem . 
That is , in summary , the proposal in the text adopted today by the EP . 
That is what we intend to do with the adoption of this report . 
in writing . - Over the last few decades , the decentralisation of powers in several Member States has considerably reinforced regional and local authorities ' competences in the delivery of Community policies . 
The incorporation by the reform treaty of sub-national subsidiarity into Community law for policies of shared competence today allows territorial authorities to be more deeply involved in the decision-making process , both for the design and the implementation of policies , as fully dignified partners , to participate in achieving the Community objectives . 
This important step towards better multi-level governance answers repeated requests by Parliament to reinforce the involvement of the sub-national authorities in the conception of policies always respecting the different national constitutional assets . 
in writing . - When the regulation now being amended was adopted on 19 February 2004 , Frontex was yet to be officially established . 
It was eight months later , on 26 October 2004 , that the Council adopted the Regulation establishing a European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders . 
By virtue of the remits set out in its rules of procedure , Frontex is responsible for carrying out risk analysis based on the information gathered by the competent authorities in the Member States , for facilitating operational cooperation between the Member States and third countries , and for cooperating with the competent authorities of third countries and with international organisations through , for example , exchanges of experience on border control issues , the training of border guards , operational information exchanges and joint operations . 
The amendments proposed here are appropriate and necessary . 
Because they move in this way , they are defenceless when judicial and law enforcement cooperation fails to protect them by implementing a rapid , effective , Europe-wide early warning and prevention mechanism . 
in writing . - This legislation represents an important step forward in combating this inhumane and degrading crime , and we welcome its adoption today . 
However , the aim of the directive was to address prevention , prosecution and protection , and the Greens regret that the provisions on victim protection are not as strong as we believe is possible and necessary . 
The position of victims and their legal status or their rights to legal assistance could , and should , have been much stronger . 
Besides the intricacy and legal uncertainty of differentiating the ` what , who and when ' in all of this , such measures actually risk bringing victims of trafficking further outside the reach of the authorities . 
in writing . - We voted against this agreement because : it aims to return people to a country where , according to the UNHCR Global Appeal 2010-2011 , around 212 000 people were internally displaced for more than 16 years , living in need of shelter and means to become self-sufficient , where sexual and gender-based violence is rife in all parts of society and police ill-treatment is tolerated ; it also applies to those former residents of Abkhazia and South Ossetia who do not have any de facto links to Georgia ; it does not include strict safeguards concerning the violation of fundamental rights and guaranteeing high standards of reception , which are poor in Georgia ; it contains numerous loopholes and ambiguities which might be clarified in the Joint Readmission Committee in which Parliament regrettably has no say , which would be entirely legitimate regarding its new competences ; it does not guarantee adequately the protection of personal data - data can be forwarded to ` other bodies ' without requiring the consent of the person involved . 
in writing . - With this report the EP stresses , once again , that the effective protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms constitutes the core of democracy and the rule of law in the EU and an essential condition of the consolidation of the European area of freedom , security and justice and that it requires actions at various levels ( international , European , national , regional and local level ) ; stresses , moreover , the role that regional and local authorities can play in the concrete implementation and in the promotion of such rights ; therefore calls on all EU institutions , Member States ' governments and parliaments to build on the new institutional and legal framework created by the Treaty of Lisbon to devise a comprehensive internal human rights policy for the Union which ensures effective accountability mechanisms , both at national and EU level , to address human rights violations . 
in writing . - This report is a powerful and timely reminder to the Commission and the Council of the importance of a binding energy-saving target ahead of the crucial Energy Summit on 4 February 2011 and as the Commission prepares its energy efficiency action plan . 
Ambitious EU measures on energy saving and efficiency are essential if Europe is to respond to the challenges of energy security and climate change . 
They also make economic sense , create jobs and save consumers money on their energy bills . 
Until now , Member States have been reneging on their pledge to reduce energy consumption by 20 % by 2020 , by making insufficient progress . 
Making the target binding will help ( as in the case of renewable energy ) to ensure that the EU governments actually deliver on this potential . 
The report also calls for stronger measures to address the energy consumption of buildings , notably by renovating the existing building stock . 
With buildings accounting for 40 % of energy consumption in the EU , it is essential to tackle this sector head on . 
The Greens hope that the EU Energy Summit will also address this crucial issue . 
in writing . - The formation of a joint European identity and the growth in interest in the European Union and its genesis are challenges with which the European institutions are faced in their bid to achieve broad cohesion and solidarity . 
There certainly are other , more radical and obvious ways to enhance the Europeans ' faith in the European Union and its leaders ( the recent financial crisis has shown that there is still much to be achieved at the upper levels of the administration ) . 
However , knowledge of the history of our continent , familiarity with its multinational , yet common cultural heritage , and stepping up the education of the younger generation in the ideas and people who led to the building of the European Union may actually contribute to bridging the gap between the EU and its citizens . 
Initially , the legal bases for the EU education , training and youth programmes did not provide for participation by Switzerland , but this changed in 2006 when Parliament and Council adopted Decisions establishing the 2007-2013 ` Youth in Action ' and Lifelong Learning programmes . 
In February 2008 , the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations on Swiss participation in the two programmes . 
An agreement was reached in August 2009 and the Council has already adopted a Decision approving its signature and provisional application from 2011 . 
Under Article 218 ( 6 ) of the TFEU , the Council has to obtain the consent of the European Parliament before the agreement can enter into force . 
The Parliament and Council Decisions establishing the ` Youth in Action ' and Lifelong Learning programmes , adopted in 2006 , already provided in principle for Swiss participation . 
The agreement negotiated with the Swiss authorities by the Commission is quite adequate : it extends the benefits of the programmes to Switzerland , while safeguarding the financial and other interests of the EU . 
The rapporteur therefore recommends that Parliament approves the draft Council Decision . 
in writing . - As usual , the final text has good and bad news . 
in writing . - The report adopted today is based on the extensive consultations that the rapporteur has been engaged in over the past six months on the situation in Afghanistan and its relations with the international community , in an attempt to explain why so little has been achieved in Afghanistan in spite of the huge amounts of money and effort expended over the past nine years . 
The gap between hope and reality in Afghanistan has become more striking than ever , and a new EU strategy in that country should thus start from this premise . 
The report focuses exclusively on four areas where targeted action could bring about real changes : international aid , the implications of the recently launched peace process , the impact of police training , and the elimination of opium cultivation . 
in writing . - In general terms , the report was well perceived by all groups and the amendments tabled by the committee reflect the agreement reached with the Council and Commission for a first-reading agreement . 
Our group is in favour of the agreement . 
in writing . - Among other things , this resolution calls on the European Council to specify as soon as possible the Treaty changes required in order to establish a permanent ESM . 
Parliament recalls that it has welcomed the establishment of a financial stability mechanism to address the risks of default by sovereign borrowers , partly using Article 122 TFEU as the legal basis of this plan , and that it has noted the inherent democratic deficit and lack of accountability of the Council 's rescue package decisions , which did not include consultation with the European Parliament . 
It also demands that the European Parliament be involved as colegislator in forthcoming crisis rescue proposals and decisions and underlines that , from a rational , practical and democratic point of view , consideration of the economic governance legislative package can not be dissociated from the decision taken by the European Council to create a permanent crisis mechanism . 
in writing . - Huge consensus , today , on the vote on the situation in Côte d'Ivoire . 
author . - Mr President , the Anti-Homosexuality Bill by David Bahati in the Ugandan Parliament that provides for the punishment of homosexual acts by imprisonment of between seven years and life , as well as the death penalty , is simply unacceptable . 
Let us remember that in Africa , legal homosexuality only exists in 13 countries , and is a criminal offence in 38 countries , whilst in Mauritania , Sudan and northern Nigeria , homosexuality is punished by death . 
This is why we need to denounce again any attempt to incite hatred and advocate violence towards any minority group , including on grounds of sex or sexual orientation . 
We need to remind the Ugandan authorities of their obligations under international law and under the Cotonou Agreement . 
This is why I also ask the Commission and the Council , and the European External Action Service as well , to make full use of the toolkit to promote and protect the enjoyment of full human rights by lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender people in their dealings with Uganda . 
in writing . - Having sought legal advice , the services stated that , having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 December 1994 on an accelerated working method for official codification of legislative texts and , in particular , to point 4 thereof , the Consultative Working Party consisting of the respective legal services of the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission met on 21 September 2010 for the purpose of examining , among others , the proposal submitted by the Commission . 
At that meeting , an examination of the amended proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council codifying the Third Council Directive 78/855/EEC of 9 October 1978 based on Article 54 ( 3 ) ( g ) of the Treaty concerning mergers of public limited liability companies resulted in the Consultative Working Party 's concluding , without dissent , that the proposal is a straightforward codification of existing texts , without any change in their substance . 
With this in mind , we decided to support the proposal . 
in writing . - Having regard to the draft Council decision ( 06903/2010 ) , having regard to the draft protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States , of the one part , and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan , of the other part , to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and of Romania to the European Union ( 09373/2008 ) , having regard to the request for consent submitted by the Council in accordance with Article 217 and Article 218 ( 6 ) , second subparagraph , point ( a ) , of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ( C7-0384 / 2010 ) , having regard to Rules 81 , 90 ( 8 ) and 46 ( 1 ) of its Rules of Procedure , having regard to the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs , the Verts/ALE Group agreed that Parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of the protocol . 
in writing . - As the Court of Justice of the European Communities has ruled , the Community has exclusive competence with respect to various aspects of external aviation which were traditionally governed by bilateral air services agreements between Member States and third countries . 
Consequently , the Council authorised the Commission in June 2003 to open negotiations with third countries in order to replace certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with Community agreements . 
Thus , the Commission has negotiated an agreement with the West African Economic and Monetary Union that replaces certain provisions in the existing 47 bilateral air services agreements concluded between EU Member States and Member States of the West African Economic and Monetary Union . 
Parliament is entitled to give its consent to the conclusion of this agreement in accordance with Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure . 
Parliament shall take a decision by means of a single vote , and no amendments to the agreement itself may be tabled . 
On the basis of the above , the rapporteur suggested that the Committee on Transport and Tourism , first , and then Parliament as a whole , should give a favourable opinion on the conclusion of this agreement . 
The Verts/ALE Group did so . 
in writing . - This regulation comes before the Parliament for second reading in view of its final adoption . 
Parliament 's first reading took place during the previous parliamentary term . 
The Council adopted its position in 2010 and subsequently , there were intense informal trialogue negotiations under the Belgian Presidency in order to reach a compromise solution . 
This regulation is very technical but is politically highly relevant for the Greens because its main purpose is to harmonise requirements regarding the marketing of construction products . 
The Verts/ALE Group 's major concerns have been to make sure , inter alia , that ( i ) procedures should be transparent ( in particular , the standardisation bodies should not be monopolised by representatives of the major industries , and the concerns of SMEs or other stakeholders should be taken into account ) ; ( ii ) construction requirements and procedures should be able to boost innovative and more ecological patterns ; ( iii ) special procedures for ` micro-enterprises ' should not allow the industry to circumvent the requirements or procedures . 
Thus , when Council Regulation ( EC ) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid is revised under the codecision procedure , it will have its own legal basis . 
The Lisbon Treaty also provided for the creation of the European External Action Service ( EEAS ) . 
As the mid-term review offers an opportunity to step up the EU 's efforts in a number of areas , the report draws attention to the following issues , among others : the promotion of humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law ; the issues of quality , coordination and consistency in the delivery of EU humanitarian aid ; clarification on the use of military and civil protection resources and capabilities in accordance with the consensus and the UN guidelines ; disaster risk reduction and reinforcement of the link between emergency aid , rehabilitation and development . 
in writing . - The report was adopted without the support of the Verts/ALE Group , which voted against . 
in writing . - The legislation adopted today is an important step forward for patients ' rights in the EU . 
The Greens believe the final compromise adopted today strikes the right balance between guaranteeing patients ' rights to cross-border healthcare and safeguarding the provision of quality health services at national level . 
Patients will have the right to get hospital treatment in other Member States and be reimbursed as they would for receiving the treatment at home . 
However , this right should not be at the expense of the viability of national health systems . 
The Greens believe the final compromise allows Member States to establish a reasonable system of prior authorisation for the reimbursement of treatment costs , with MEPs succeeding in limiting the list of reasons for which a patient can be refused cross-border treatment . 
in writing . - After a thorough scrutiny together with several NGOs , we have decided to support the signature of the two VPAs . 
Thus , to raise some additional concerns , an oral question with debate has been tabled , with the support of all political groups , underlining the need for the Commission to make sure some criteria are guaranteed , not only during the signature phase , but also during the most crucial implementation phase of the agreements . 
For example , we ask the Commission to present , within six months of the entry into force of any VPA , a report on the measures undertaken to ensure that the dialogue between the stakeholders and civil society , including the local and indigenous population , continues and is maintained during the implementation phase . 
Underlined in the text are the risk of large-scale exploitation of forests , and both the direct and indirect impact of commercial logging on wildlife , biodiversity , deforestation , degradation of forests , and local populations and indigenous people . 
We have also tried to raise the crucial need to ensure freedom of speech and respect for human rights , so that any complaints are heard in any country concerned by VPAs . 
in writing . - As a part of FLEGT ( Forest Law Enforcement , Governance and Trade ) , exporter countries of tropical hardwood have begun to sign Voluntary Partnership Agreements ( VPAs ) with the EU to ensure the traceability and legality of timber and verification procedures . 
The objective of the two FLEGT VPAs with the Republic of Congo and Cameroon is to provide a legislative framework which aims to : ( i ) detect and ensure the traceability of timber , ( ii ) put in place independent verification procedures to certify all timber exports from the partner country to the European market , in order to provide a basis for the legal management and exploitation of the Congolese and Cameroonian forests , and ( iii ) reinforce the application of forestry regulations and governance . 
A VPA has already been signed between the EU and Ghana in 2009 . 
With the Lisbon Treaty , the European Parliament has codecision and needs to give its formal assent to two VPAs relating to Cameroon and the Republic of Congo . 
More VPAs are to come in the near future , especially with some Asian countries and also with the Democratic Republic of Congo . 
in writing . - Greens maintain their long-standing opposition to EPAs with any of the ACP regions , and consequently do not see the added value of the IEPA with two of the Pacific States . 
In this specific case , Greens fear further de-integration of this region widely spread over the Pacific Ocean , as a consequence of IEPA preferential trade arrangements with the EU . 
Furthermore , a predictable unfettered increase in traditional exports , concentrated in raw materials such as copper , sugar , copra , fish and palm oil ( agro-fuels ! ) is entirely at odds with sustainable development needs . 
Hence , Greens supported the Pacific Trade Ministers ' ( unsuccessful ) request to revise critical elements of the IEPA , namely , the definition of ` substantially all trade ' , the ban on the use of export taxes and weak infant industry safeguards , and the Most Favoured Nation ( MNF ) clause . 
On the global sourcing aspect , an alternative solution would have been to limit the provision to catches inside the 200-mile exclusive economic zone ( EEZ ) , rather than in any waters . 
Last but not least , Fiji does not have a democratic regime . 
Our shadow , José Bové , tabled 11 amendments in that regard . 
in writing . - We Greens/EFA have abstained . 
In the joint motion for a resolution , following negotiations among political groups , the negative points of the EPP resolution were replaced . 
Nevertheless , the resolution was initiated by Italians in response to a very specific national need and in relation to a matter which does not fall under European competence . 
We have succeeded in making the resolution merely ' a call for the possibility of coordinating at European level the strategies related to the instrument of international adoption ' , with no reference to specific national problems . 
As we are already working on this matter in the JURI and LIBE Committees , there was no need for such a resolution . 
in writing . - Our group voted in favour , given that 16 out of the 17 amendments tabled were adopted or included in the compromise amendments drafted by the rapporteur , including the one asking that the candidacy be linked to closer cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia ( ICTY ) . 
Other amendments dealt with Kosovo , gender equality , minority rights , civil society , public transport , environment and relations with Bosnia . 
in writing . - We have given our support to this text because most of the amendments we presented were adopted . 
It is very important as it calls on Serbia to enter into dialogue with Kosovo without referring to new negotiations on either status or partition . 
in writing . - We have supported this proposal because , among other things , it calls on the Council to declare dementia to be an EU health priority and strongly urges the Member States to develop specific national plans and strategies for Alzheimer 's disease in order to deal with the social and health consequences of dementia and to provide services and support for people with dementia and their families , as has been done in several Member States where the Alzheimer 's and similar diseases plan launched in 2008 has made it possible to coordinate medical and social care and clinical and basic research into these diseases at national level . 
in writing . - With the adoption of this resolution , the EP : 
in writing . - Haiti is again a matter of urgency . 
We reiterate with this resolution our solidarity with the people of Haiti suffering as a result of the earthquake and the cholera epidemic , and stress that reconstruction efforts must involve the consultation of , and include , the Haitian people and Haitian civil society . 
in writing . - For over 40 years , Libya has been ruled by a dictatorial regime in which power is concentrated in one man , Colonel Gaddafi , the longest serving African and Arab leader . 
Libyans enjoy free education and healthcare and subsidised housing , benefiting from some degree of social distribution of the oil income . 
Yet , despite the GDP growth rates , development lags behind that of other oil-rich countries and Libya is one of the less diversified economies in the region , foreign investment remaining at the mercy of the unpredictable decisions of the ruler . 
Capital punishment is regularly carried out . 
In conclusion , Libya 's strategic importance and the many challenges it poses underline the need for a comprehensive EU policy towards Libya . 
The EU needs to engage with Libya across a broad range of issues . 
This framework agreement must also be a substantive tool to promote the rule of law , respect for human rights , protection of migrants and refugees and sustainable development in Libya . 
in writing . - The European Union has repeatedly expressed its commitment to freedom of religion , freedom of conscience and freedom of thought , and has stressed that governments have a duty to guarantee these freedoms all over the world . 
The development of human rights , democracy and civil liberties is the common base on which the European Union builds its relations with third countries , and it has been provided for by the democracy clause in the agreements between the EU and third countries . 
Article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights declares that everyone has the right to freedom of thought , conscience and religion ; and freedom of thought , conscience and religion applies not only to adherents of religions but also to atheists , agnostics and people without beliefs . 
Thus , we condemn the recent attacks on Christian communities in various countries and expresses solidarity with the families of the victims ; we express our deep concerns about the proliferation of episodes of intolerance and repression and violent events directed against Christian communities , particularly in the countries of Africa , Asia and the Middle East . 
It also condemns the use of brutal force by the police and KGB services against the protesters on election day and , in particular , expresses its indignation over a brutal attack on Uladzimir Niakliayeu - examples of the severe violation of basic democratic principles such as freedom of assembly and freedom of expression , as well as of human rights , and it expresses its concern at the attempts by the Belarusian authorities to take into state custody Danil Sannikov , three-year-old son of presidential candidate , Andrei Sannikov , and investigative journalist , Irina Khalip , both of whom have been jailed since the 19 December election . 
in writing . - We have supported globally the proposed report , although we lost some important votes regarding ecological taxation . 
However , in general terms , the text was good enough to be supported by us at the end ( with no enthusiasm , that is true ) . 
in writing . - The Arctic region is attracting more and more attention , due to the effects of climate change , the main trigger of developments . 
Thus , Europe does not only bear a certain responsibility , being one of the main contributors to pollution and greenhouse gas emissions , but also has a particular interest in the Arctic , since it will have to deal with the consequences of the changes taking place there from environmental and climate-change issues to the geopolitics of shipping routes and security of supply of resources . 
in writing . - We call on the Commission and the European External Action Service ( EEAS ) to draw up a strategy for the Black Sea region in parallel with the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy , thus defining an integrated and comprehensive EU approach to addressing the challenges and opportunities of the region , with a detailed action plan , clear objectives , flagship initiatives and benchmarks . 
We believe that the strategy will make for effective coordination of activities and division of tasks . 
As well as this , the EP reiterates its call on the Commission and the EEAS to carry out regular reviews of the implementation of the strategy by establishing concrete monitoring , evaluation , follow-up and reporting mechanisms , and urges that the relevant European Parliament committees be consulted at key stages of this process . 
author . - Mr President , I have to stay that I deeply deplore the fact that we once more have to talk about Iran , but we have to . 
We really have to because the situation in Iran is gravely problematic and dramatic . 
That is why it is important that this Parliament reiterates once again its call for the release of all prisoners of conscience , including all those who have been detained over the last year in connection with their peaceful - and I repeat , peaceful - political and human rights activities . 
This Parliament has to call again on the Iranian authorities to respect the internationally recognised rights to freedom of expression and assembly , and strongly condemn the extraordinarily harsh sentence against Nasrin Sotoudeh and to commend her for her courage and her engagement . 
This is also why this Parliament has to consider Mrs Sotoudeh , as well as her fellow human rights activists and prisoners of conscience , and demand her immediate release . 
We have to express our concern over the ever more frequently imposed sentence of a ban on leaving Iran , which can lead to the logical conclusion that staying in Iran is considered a punishment by the authorities . 
We have to call on the authorities to combat the impunity of human rights violators within the security forces and also reiterate our demand for an independent investigation into allegations of extra-judicial executions since June 's disputed presidential elections and for alleged violators to be brought to justice . 
Evidently , we also have to strongly condemn the bomb attack in Chabahar and to express our condolences to the victims ' families and the injured . 
Finally , I should like to say that we are seriously concerned about the persecution of certain religions and ethnic groups in Iran . 
We have to express our conviction , supported by recent European history , that peaceful and balanced social and political development can only be achieved by taking the cultural and social aspirations of differing regions into account . 
The Court of the 2nd and 3rd Districts of Budapest asked the European Parliament to waive the immunity of its Member , Tamás Deutsch , against whom criminal proceedings are being brought in that court . 
Tamás Deutsch is accused in the proceedings pending in the Budapest Court of the criminal offence of defamation under Section 179 ( 2 ) ( b-c ) of the Hungarian Criminal Code . 
in writing . - Under the influence of the European Parliament 's Legal Service , the DEVE , AFET ( DROI ) and INTA Committees have started a fight to gain co-decision rights on the strategic programming level of the financial instruments in external relations . 
Parliament has decided to raise the bargaining level by treating all instruments in a package approach . 
Apart from this basic conflict , the other mid-term adaptations are consensus between the three institutions ( with the exception of the ICI + ) . 
As it turned out after the first reading in October 2010 , negotiations on the ` delegated acts ' are completely blocked . 
Therefore Parliament has decided : ( 1 ) to maintain a common line , i.e. to keep the package of external financial assistance instruments together ( including also - so far informally - the IfS ) ; ( 2 ) to restore with the EP 's second reading amendments the positions adopted by the EP at first reading , i.e. to adopt regarding all external financial assistance instruments the same amendments that were rejected by the Council ; and ( 3 ) to go for a quick second reading . 
in writing . - With this resolution , the EP expresses its solidarity with the Tunisian people , who , prompted by legitimate democratic aspirations and a desire for better social conditions and easier access to employment , have brought their country to a historic political watershed . 
In that connection , Parliament applauds their courage and determination during the demonstrations , extends its condolences to the families of the victims and expresses its solidarity with the injured . 
in writing . - With this resolution , the EP firstly underlines the fact that only a vaccination programme involving a large-scale vaccination campaign could have a positive impact in terms of achieving MDG 6 after 2015 , and in particular the eradication of tuberculosis by 2050 . 
Secondly , it considers vaccines to be an essential means of combating tuberculosis , together with better - reliable , low-cost and soundly based - testing , as well as more effective diagnosis and treatment , and that this implies a major shift in the focus of research and an increase in sustainable funding . 
Thirdly , it calls on the Commission to explore innovative funding channels , such as the establishment by the Member States and/or the Union of a financial guarantee to enable funding for the TBVI to be obtained from the European Investment Bank , with a view to securing finance for research in developing countries into neglected diseases and those involving little profit potential . 
in writing . - It is crucial that the new authorities and their chairs carry out their functions in the interest of Europe 's citizens . 
Shadowy lobbying relations will undermine the credibility and effectiveness of these authorities and it is important that they carry out their work in the utmost transparency . 
We must now move forward and ensure that these authorities can effectively carry out their crucial oversight role over EU financial markets . 
in writing . - This proposal gives an opportunity to : strengthen the contribution of EEA and EFTA States to the reduction of economic and social disparities in the European Economic Area ; significantly increase the financial mechanism against unchanged concessions for Iceland and modestly increase the concessions for Norway . 
I therefore suggested that the Committee on Fisheries give a favourable opinion on the Commission 's proposal COM ( 2010 ) 234 . 
in writing . - The horizontal agreement with Brazil will restore a sound legal basis for the EU 's aviation relations with Brazil . 
This has been an important first step in strengthening EU-Brazil aviation relations which has allowed Brazil and the EU to further enhance aviation cooperation and move towards negotiating a comprehensive air services agreement between Brazil and the EU . 
Upon a request from the European Commission , on 15 October 2010 , the EU Transport Council granted a mandate to the European Commission to negotiate a comprehensive air services agreement with Brazil based on a combination of gradual market opening and regulatory cooperation and convergence . 
in writing . - In line with our position during the vote in the LIBE Committee ( the lead committee ) , we in the Verts/ALE Group decided to vote against this proposal . 
in writing . - Although the rapporteur welcomes the renewed referral to Parliament of the draft Council decision and thus , the continuation of the negotiations on the association of Liechtenstein with the Dublin agreement with Switzerland , and calls for the consent of Parliament , the Verts/ALE Group decided not to follow that advice . 
We therefore voted against the proposal , as we did in the LIBE Committee . 
The visa exemption for travel purposes other than those stipulated in the agreement can still be realised under the provisions of bilateral agreements signed by Brazil with 23 of the 27 Member States . 
in writing . - We finally voted against the text because , regarding services of general interest , the report considers that the majority of Member States did not encounter any significant problems . 
Although this wording waters down a bit the initial proposal by the EPP shadow ( Handzlik , Poland ) according to which there has been no problem at all , this still tends to ignore the uncertainties created by the directive regarding , in particular , the social services to be included or excluded in its scope . 
in writing . - The Council , under the Belgian Presidency , weakened considerably Parliament 's position as adopted at first and second reading . 
The scope of the regulation is fixed as services for a minimum distance of 250 km , i.e. most bus services will not be included . 
There is also the formulation on reimbursement in case of delay ( at least 2 hours , with half of the ticket price to be reimbursed - compare rail transport with reimbursement from 1 hour 's delay ) . 
Finally , the rights for PRMs are narrowed and weakened and barrier-free access to bus services is not guaranteed . 
In consequence , we voted against . 
The main content of the first-reading agreement was : delaying the binding 175 g CO2/km average limit by one year ( 2017 ) ; lowering the 2020 target to 147 g/km , requiring to be confirmed by legislative procedure ; lowering excess emissions premium to EUR 95/g ; and a slight increase and prolongation of super-credits until 2017 . 
However , the final outcome in plenary was highly unsatisfactory , and we decided to vote against . 
in writing . - Our group can not agree to give its consent and to initiate a procedure because , in the words of the Advocates General of the Court of Justice : ` As it stands at present , the envisaged agreement creating a unified patent litigation system is incompatible with the treaties ' . 
Our group has asked for the postponement of the vote as the Court decision on the above opinion of the Advocates General is due already on 8 March and Parliament should be fully aware of the legal consequences of the ` enhanced cooperation ' before embarking on such an exceptional project . 
The other political groups have not supported our request for postponement . 
The consent does not concern specific measures implementing enhanced cooperation . 
Such proposals will be submitted at a later stage , if enhanced cooperation is authorised ( i.e. Council regulations creating unitary patent protection and translation arrangements for the unitary patent ) . 
in writing . - The radioactive contamination of food is clearly a concern for European public health and , as such , it is essential that this legislation is decided on that basis , with the European Parliament as a colegislator . 
It is simply not acceptable that this legislative revision would fail to ensure Europe 's citizens have total protection from radioactive contaminated food . 
in writing . - With this resolution , the European Parliament commends Croatia for the substantial progress achieved in attaining the benchmarks necessary for the conclusion of the accession negotiations ; it asks Croatia to pursue resolutely the necessary reforms in order to be able to attain the final benchmarks and to conclude the negotiations ; and it calls on the Commission to use all its capacities to support Croatia 's efforts to attain the benchmarks . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , the last two decades of implementation of the CFP have shown that dealing with Mediterranean fisheries separately through mesh-specific regulations only perpetuates the double standard in fisheries management in Europe : Atlantic versus Mediterranean . 
This has resulted in a chronic status quo of mismanagement , lack of enforcement and overfishing in the Mediterranean Sea . 
Only by making Mediterranean stakeholders - from fishermen to governments - accountable alongside their Atlantic counterparts , all subject to common standards and formal processes , can there be a decisive break from the past . 
Neither Mediterranean marine ecosystems and fish stocks , nor fishermen and society at large , can afford a new failure by the CFP to fully address Mediterranean fisheries this time . 
European fisheries in the Mediterranean must cease to be considered as an outlier and must be fully and firmly covered by all aspects of the new CFP . 
in writing . - With this report , the EP decided not to waive the immunity of Elmar Brok . 
in writing . - A well-functioning single market would also mean safe products and consumer confidence . 
in writing . - The EP has today thrown a spotlight on the disproportionate response to the swine flu outbreak in Europe . 
Member States spent billions of euro on vaccines , which were authorised in a rush despite the moderate nature of the virus . 
Health budgets are notoriously overstretched , and there are far more important health issues to tackle than giving subsidies to big pharmaceutical firms . 
MEPs have today called for a revision of the EU 's health response mechanisms . 
Preparedness plans should become sufficiently autonomous and flexible to be adapted as swiftly as possible to the actual risks . 
The evaluation of medicines needs to be fully transparent , and all declarations of interest should be published to allow for public scrutiny of possible conflicts of interests . 
The EU blindly followed the WHO in its response to the swine flu outbreak , and this clearly needs to change . 
The EP has called for meaningful EU risk evaluation and for the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control to be given adequate means to carry out all its tasks , not least , to assess the severity of infection risk . 
Title II deals with restrictions on fishing gear and activities ( ` technical measures ' ) . 
in writing . - The European Parliament today reiterated the call for the introduction of an EU-level financial transaction tax , as part of a report on innovative financing adopted by MEPs . 
While the ultimate goal should be to introduce a global FTT , there are clear benefits for the EU to push ahead on its own . 
MEPs have today urged the Commission to take steps to this end . 
The Greens have long championed the introduction of a financial transaction tax both as a means of curbing harmful speculation and as a new source for generating public revenue . 
As well as being a potentially significant source of revenue at a time when national exchequers are under strain , a financial transaction tax is socially just . 
A FTT would also clearly address the systemic risk emanating from high-frequency trading , acting as a disincentive for risky speculation . 
It is time for the Commission and Member States to stop stalling ' . 
in writing . - As the draft report already covered most of the relevant issues , there was no need to table many amendments . 
While we , the Greens/EFA , co-signed a number of amendments with the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs , we were the only ones to try to introduce criticism of the current model of drug development based on patents , which leads to high prices for medical innovation and lack of access to affordable essential medicines . 
in writing . - Parliament has today highlighted the importance of tackling the erosion of tax revenues in developing countries , notably by doing more to combat tax havens . 
In order to be credible to this end , the EU must clearly clamp down on its own tax havens first and go beyond the OECD framework . 
The report also calls for the adoption of an international convention on tax matters that would include sanctions both for non-cooperative jurisdictions and for financial institutions that operate with tax havens . 
MEPs have also underlined the need to ensure greater transparency by multinational companies on their tax compliance in developing countries , notably the extractive industries , by ensuring country-by-country reporting . 
EU tax assistance should encourage the development of progressive taxation regimes in developing countries , notably by securing an equitable share of a corporation 's profits . 
Good tax governance is crucial to development and the EU should support developing countries to this end , particularly against a background of the decline in trade taxes resulting from trade liberalisation globally . 
I welcome the support of MEPs for this report , which outlines clear proposals to this end . 
in writing . - Given the impasse in the multilateral trade negotiations , the EU has pursued the negotiation of bilateral and interregional trade agreements , as complementary to the multilateral framework . 
As in the case of Morocco , there is currently severe competition between the US and the EU as to who will enter first - and under which conditions - into key new markets . 
My colleague , José Bové , has been able to clearly question the approach of these bilateral agreements in the case of Morocco in his report in INTA which might lead to a rejection of the agreement as proposed by the Commission . 
We have voted in favour . 
in writing . - Key points in the report are : to create a framework for the cultivation and use of protein plants in the EU in order to replace the import of protein crops from third countries ; to abandon the Blair House Agreement and to improve crop rotation in the framework of CAP reform ; to generate a new scientific approach and to improve training and facilities for farmers . 
The result of votes in the AGRI Committee was satisfying except for the introduction of a number of amendments by ALDE and the EPP ` contaminating ' the report with amendments promoting GMOs . 
The interested GM industry had been lobbying to ease the zero tolerance policy of the EU , which does not allow non-authorised GM feed to enter the EU . 
Unfortunately , in plenary , we could not decontaminate the report on protein deficit from the GMO zero tolerance attack . 
But the majorities in plenary were much closer to our position than in the AGRI Committee . 
So it is worth trying hard to reverse majorities in plenary on GMO issues . 
Häusling ( Green ) resigned as rapporteur . 
in writing . - The Nedelcheva FEMM report was adopted by 366 : 200 : 32 . 
67 ) . 
in writing . - The Plumb FEMM report was adopted by majority . 
The calendar of part-sessions for 2012 should now be amended as follows : delete the part-session proposed for week 40 ( 1 to 4 October ) ; split the October II part-session ( 22 to 25 October ) into two separate part-sessions : part-session 1 : 22 and 23 October ; part-session 2 : 25 and 26 October . 
in writing . - As one of the co-signatories of the key amendment , I am glad it has been adopted . 
The calendar of part-sessions for 2013 should now be amended as follows : delete the part-session proposed for week 40 ( 30 Sep to 3 Oct ) ; split the October II part-session ( 21 to 24 October ) into two separate part-sessions : part-session 1 : 21 and 22 October ; part-session 2 : 24 and 25 October . 
in writing . - I voted in favour even if I would have preferred that some amendments concerning the need for the EP to reduce its number of places of work to one did not pass . 
in writing . - As was the case in the resolution on an EU strategy for the Danube region adopted by the EP last month , the present draft resolution stresses that the major added value of EU macro-regional strategies is seen in multi-level cooperation , coordination and better strategic investment of available funding , and not in the additional allocation of resources . 
The draft resolution underlines the conclusions of the Swedish Presidency regarding no new institutions , no new legislation and no new budgets . 
Furthermore , REGI wanted this strategy to work according to a bottom-up approach and to involve all stakeholders ( regional and local public authorities , Member States , the EU , private stakeholders and civil society organisations , including the interregional networks and organisations concerned ) in its design and implementation . 
From the Greens/EFA point of view , we proposed amendments on the development of marine energy , the prevention and fighting of marine pollution by ships , and the development of short sea shipping and highways of the sea , that were all adopted . 
in writing . - Notwithstanding the progress mentioned during the debate , and the ` opening ' , problems remain in relation to women , minorities , freedom of opinion and the press , social imbalances , poverty , rights of the child , education , an independent judiciary and army intervention in politics . 
The EU Commission notes that despite legislative advances , ` however , senior members of the armed forces have made a number of statements going beyond their remit , in particular , on judicial issues ' . 
It reached the following conclusion regarding the judiciary : ` Investigations in some high-profile cases continued to raise concerns . 
This points to the need to improve the work of the police and the gendarmerie but , also , the working relationship between the police and the gendarmerie , on the one hand , and the judiciary , on the other ' . 
Montenegro , which became a candidate country in December 2010 , is still waiting for negotiations to start . 
The report criticises this fact in paragraph 2 : ` regrets the decoupling of candidate status from the right to open negotiations and stresses that the decision to start them should not be unduly or unreasonably postponed ' . 
The rapporteur expects negotiations to start after the 2011 progress report . 
Some interesting points are on IPA ( paragraph 5 ) , corruption ( paragraph 8 ) , freedom of information ( paragraph 10 ) , organised crime ( paragraph 14 ) and anti-discrimination ( paragraphs 17-22 ) . 
Many paragraphs are devoted to the issue of anti-discrimination and touch on all relevant aspects such as Roma , Ashkali , Egyptians ( paragraphs 17 and 22 ) , LGBT ( paragraph 17 ) , women and domestic violence ( paragraphs 17-19 ) , ethnic issues ( paragraph 21 ) and civil society ( paragraphs 5 , 10 , 23 , 24 and 32 ) . 
In general , the report is very positive on the role of CSO and devotes many paragraphs to the issue . 
The most important are paragraphs 23 , 24 and 32 . 
In these paragraphs , the report ` reiterates the importance of active and independent civil society organisations for democracy ' and ` encourages the Montenegrin Government to have close collaboration and regular dialogue with NGOs ' . 
in writing . - Parliament has today supported a set of actions to promote the competitiveness of European industry . 
I welcome the recognition that , to face the crisis and globalisation challenges , energy and resource efficiency must be the basis for European industrial renewal . 
Sustainability has to be recognised as a central aspect of the so-called ` competitiveness proofing ' and ` fitness checks ' to be implemented by the Commission as part of its better regulation initiatives . 
The report rightfully calls for closed-loop industrial systems , greater resource productivity , durability and re-use , recycling and remanufacturing . 
The report also calls for instruments to foster the development and growth of eco-innovative SMEs , as well as the development of eco-industrial parks . 
It is important to bring the EU 's industrial policy in line with its climate and energy policy objectives . 
The Greens expect the Commission to deliver on that challenge in its upcoming strategic initiatives , such as the resource efficiency strategy , the raw materials strategy and the Small Business Act . 
in writing . - This law has effectively been designed with the intention of restricting media activities in Hungary and limiting critical scrutiny of the government , as part of wider restrictions on pluralism in Hungary . 
This is in direct conflict with the core principles of the EU , as set out in the Treaties and the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
The Commission and the Council must continue to push for the complete overhaul or withdrawal of the law on this basis . 
Parliament has made it clear that the Commission should not simply roll over and give in to the Hungarian Government on this crucial issue . 
in writing . - I see paragraphs 10 and 11 ( as amended ) as being especially important in this text : 
in writing . - This is the first report on Iran in Parliament since the Gahler Report in 2001 . 
Since all negotiations on agreements between the EU and Iran have been on hold for years , the only way for Parliament to express a more in-depth position on this country is via an own-initiative report , which was initiated through a Green proposal . 
The EFD was given the task . 
4 political groups ( Greens , S&D , ALDE and GUE ) formulated joint amendments to the draft which were , to a large degree adopted , albeit by a slight majority . 
Important issues are : EU contacts with Iran ( paragraph 32 ) where , as regards the background of the controversy over whether the EP 's Iran delegation should be allowed to travel to Iran , the text now calls - contrary to the wishes of the rapporteur - for contacts with a broad range of actors , without making a direct reference to the delegation ; sanctions ( paragraph 42 ) , where the text calls for targeted sanctions on the main human rights offenders - so far , there are only sanctions on persons linked to the nuclear dossier ; and the opening of an EU embassy in Tehran - in parallel with almost all Member States that have a representation in the country . 
in writing . - A good report where , among other things , Parliament welcomes the fact that the agenda of the 16th regular session includes reports on the ` Rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic , religious and linguistic minorities ' , and on the ` Promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism ' , as well as extensive meetings on the rights of the child ; welcomes also this year 's nominations of Special Rapporteurs on these key topics , and takes note of the reports to be presented by the Special Rapporteurs on torture and other cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment , on freedom of religion or belief , and on the situation of human rights defenders ; calls on the EU Member States to contribute actively to these debates . 
in writing . - The idea of a Generalised System of Preferences ( GSP ) goes back to 1968 , when tariffs were much higher in general and when they were still seen as the main barrier to trade from developing to industrialised countries . 
The first three-year scheme was implemented from 2006 to 2008 . 
The second scheme is due to expire on 31 December 2011 . 
The current scheme was adopted in 2008 under the consultation procedure . 
This should not happen again for the forthcoming regulation , in particular given Parliament 's new competencies under the Treaty of Lisbon . 
having regard to the Commission proposal to Parliament and the Council , 
having regard to Article 294 ( 2 ) and Article 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union , pursuant to which the Commission submitted the proposal to Parliament ( C7-0297 / 2010 ) , 
having regard to Article 294 ( 3 ) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union , 
having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee of 8 December 2010 ( 1 ) , 
having regard to Rule 55 of its Rules of Procedure , 
having regard to the report of the Committee on Industry , Research and Energy , 
in writing . - We have requested that the institutions involved , as usually on those cases , make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF . 
Moreover , Parliament appreciates in this sense the improved procedure put in place by the Commission , following Parliament 's request for accelerating the release of grants , aimed at presenting to the budgetary authority the Commission 's assessment on the eligibility of an EGF application together with the proposal to mobilise the Fund and hopes that further improvements in the procedure will be reached in the framework of the upcoming reviews of the Fund . 
However , it also recalls the institutions ' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF , providing one-off , time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have been made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis , points out the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market and , however , calls for an evaluation on the long-term integration of these workers into the labour market as a direct result of the EGF-funded measures . 
It is therefore important to highlight the role that women play in farm businesses and in rural areas , taking particular account of the multifunctional nature of these businesses . 
In this context , there are opportunities to provide practical support measures for women in agriculture . 
Greater account must be taken of the wide range of vocational skills , interests and achievements of women , so that jobs in farming remain an attractive option for them . 
This will entail women having a full share in the resources that underpin farming as a way of life and a type of business . 
Women farmers must have a share in rights and duties that is commensurate with their co-responsibility for the farm business , including through the representation of interests on agricultural bodies and by having a real share in farm income . 
Ensuring adequate social cover for all women who work in agriculture is another indispensable factor in modern sustainable farming . 
Experience with systems of agricultural social security in the EU Member States should be taken into account and should , in the medium term , contribute to a definite improvement of the social situation of women in agriculture in Europe . 
in writing . - As usually in this type of reports , the EP : 
in writing . - In AFET/SEDE , as green MEP as rapporteur , we were very successful . 
The AFET/SEDE opinion proposed to delete the Low Value Shipments CGEA because we were provided with good data proving that there is no positive correlation between a low price and a low security risk , an assumption on which the whole CGEA relied . 
On the contrary , some very cheap dual use items might be of great risk if they get into the wrong hands . 
We were also able to delete the part on ` Information Security ' of EU007 because among the possible destinations were some non-democratic countries . 
We also managed to get a broad support in AFET/SEDE for strong wording on the need to respect human rights when in comes to the export of telecommunication equipment because interception technologies , digital data transfer devices for monitoring mobiles phones , etc. are part of this CGEA . 
With regard to possible destinations of individual CGEAs we managed to exclude both Israel and India because of their unwillingness to become a State Party to the Non-proliferation Treaty ( NPT ) . 
But the most contentious and important issue was the question of whether it is sufficient to control , notify and register after the export has taken place or prior to the export . 
in writing . - We have abstained . 
The report concerns a transfer in payments for mobilising the EU Solidarity Fund for floods in 2011 in Poland , Slovakia , Hungary , the Czech Republic , Croatia and Romania . 
We agree with the urgent need to mobilise the funds , but not with the proposed financing method ( via a ` negative reserve ' ) . 
In parallel to the proposal to mobilise the Solidarity Fund for Poland , Slovakia , Hungary , the Czech Republic , Croatia and Romania , the Commission has presented a Draft amending budget ( DAB No 1/2011 of 14 January 2011 ) in order to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2011 budget , as foreseen in point 26 of the IIA . 
We , as Greens , are very critical of how these types of agreements have been implemented so far . 
in writing . - Having regard to the draft Council decision ( 13604/2010 ) , having regard to the draft protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States , of the one part , and Ukraine , of the other part , concluded on 14 June 1994 , on a framework agreement between the European Union and Ukraine on the general principles for the participation of Ukraine in Union programmes ( 13962/2010 ) , having regard to the request for consent submitted by the Council in accordance with Articles 114 , 168 , 169 , 172 , 173 ( 3 ) , 188 and 192 and Article 218 ( 6 ) , second subparagraph , point ( a ) , of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ( C7-0401 / 2010 ) , having regard to Rules 81 , 90 ( 8 ) and 46 ( 1 ) of Parliament 's Rules of Procedure , and having regard to the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs , we consent to conclusion of the protocol . 
Greenland 's exports of fishery products , approximately 82 % of its total exports , totalled DKK 1.9 billion ( EUR 255 million ) in 2007 , the largest part of which ( 87 % ) went to the EU , notably ( 97 % ) to Denmark . 
Accordingly , the Committee on Fisheries asked the Committee on Legal Affairs for an opinion on the proposed legal basis . 
At its meeting of 28 October 2010 , the Committee on Legal Affairs adopted unanimously an opinion entirely supporting the request that Articles 43 ( 2 ) and 204 TFEU and the Sole Article of the Protocol ( No 34 ) on Special Arrangements for Greenland form the legal basis for the proposed legislative act . 
I am particularly happy that our centre-right colleagues agreed on the need for special protection , regardless of their general position on asylum . 
Lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender people fleeing countries such as Iraq , Uganda , Honduras or Indonesia must receive particular protection taking into account cultural sensitivity . 
This is a major step towards fully complying with our engagements under international asylum law . 
The European Parliament is showing that asylum rules need updating to reflect reality : 76 countries criminalise homosexual acts and 7 foresee the death penalty ( maybe 8 soon with Uganda ) . 
I regret that other progressive provisions did not pass , but today 's text will ultimately bring more fairness for LGBT asylum seekers . 
The text adopted today is the European Parliament 's formal position at first reading . 
Asylum rules will effectively be amended once EU governments examine the text and conclude an agreement with the European Parliament . 
In the EU , Directive 95/57/EC on the collection of statistical information in the field of tourism organises the system of tourism statistics . 
Eurostat publishes these statistics , which are collected and compiled by national statistical authorities . 
It is one of the two principal means employed - the other being the European Fisheries Fund ( EFF ) - to translate the CFP into practice . 
It provides for funding in the following areas : international relations , governance , data collection , scientific advice , and CFP control systems and enforcement . 
In each sphere of activity , this regulation applies in conjunction with other regulations or decisions . 
That related legislation has changed in some respects since the adoption of Regulation ( EC ) No 861/2006 , which consequently needs to be amended in order to bring all elements into a coherent relationship within the legislative framework . 
The Commission is also seeking to clarify the scope of some of the measures financed and to improve the wording of certain articles . 
in writing . - In favour , since the consensus resolution considers that the draft Commission regulation on the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to children 's development and health is not compatible with the aim and content of Regulation ( EC ) No 1924/2006 , and opposes the adoption of the draft Commission regulation . 
in writing . - Abstention . 
Specifying this future policy , which will be integrated into the common trade policy , firstly involves an analysis of investment policies conducted so far . 
Pursuant to Article 325 ( 5 ) , the Commission , in cooperation with Member States , each year submits to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the measures taken for the implementation of that article . 
The report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the Protection of the European Union 's financial interests - Fight against fraud - Annual report 2009 ( COM ( 2010 ) 382 ) provides a summary of statistics on irregularities reported by the Member States in those areas where Member States implement the budget ( agricultural policy , cohesion policy and pre-accession funds , i.e. around 80 % of the budget ) and for the collection of EU 's traditional own resources . 
By transcending the centrality of the oft-raised questions ` who governs and how ' , it calls attention to the question ` who is governed ' . 
But this may be turned into an advantage , should one clarify the ` constitutive mission ' of European political parties and how an informed and principled dialogue on their political development can facilitate the emergence of a plural demos , whose members can direct their democratic claims to , and via , the central institutions . 
The rapporteur has suggested that one of the key challenges in relaunching the Single Market is ensuring political leadership , commitment and coordination . 
The 50 proposals for relaunching the Single Market encompass numerous portfolios , crucially involving the competences of several commissioners in the Commission and touch upon jurisdiction of various committees in the European Parliament . 
On 11 November 2010 , the Commission adopted a communication proposal to renew Europeans ' trust in the Single Market . 
This Single Market Act will be under discussion until 28 February 2011 . 
The overall approach proposed by the Commission is a continuation of the report by Mario Monti to the President of the European Commission , ' A new strategy for the Single Market ' . 
Its purpose , in accordance with Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union , is to strengthen ' a highly competitive social market economy , aiming at full employment and social progress , and a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment ' by placing companies , especially SMEs , and Europeans at the heart of the Single Market . 
The Commission communication ` Towards a Single Market Act for a highly competitive social market economy ' contains 50 proposals for improving our work , business and exchanges with one another ' , and Chapter II in particular , ` Restoring confidence by putting Europeans at the heart of the Single Market ' , contains 19 initiatives on the social dimension of the Single Market . 
In October 2010 , the Commission adopted a communication entitled ` Towards a Single Market Act ' to re-launch the Single Market . 
In the first part of this communication , the Commission proposes a number of actions to have stronger , sustainable and equitable growth for business . 
on behalf of the ALDE Group . - Mr President , last October , I tabled a written question to the Commission concerning the discrepancies between the figures in the different EU services on the EU import of tomatoes from Morocco . 
In 2008 , there were about 100 000 tonnes in difference between DG TAXUD and Eurostat . 
The Commission answered that it had observed the problem and was solving it , but it is not clear to me whether the Commission will achieve what European citizens and European producers deserve . 
In the European Union , we import tomatoes not only from Morocco but also from other third countries . 
We should find a way for negotiations to be very fair to everyone and not at the expense of the European agriculture sector . 
We should also find a way to control what we are importing from other countries outside the EU , especially in some northern European ports . 
Without effective border controls , the European agriculture sector will have a very difficult future . 
If European production of tomatoes is damaged by the EU-Morocco Agreement , it will be very difficult to regain production on EU soil . 
The rules and the obligations should be applied to everyone , which means fair competition . 
What we can not accept is the application of different rules and duties to a European producer and an agricultural producer outside the EU . 
Accepting this means accepting the loss in competitiveness of our agricultural sector and a huge effect on the labour force in Europe . 
I am in favour of free trade , but under symmetric conditions of production and information . 
If they do not exist , free trade is not fair trade and competition is not fair competition . 
Finally , I do not think that Parliament should ratify the EU-Morocco Agreement without the inclusion of clauses concerning the labour market , the social dimension and the environment in Morocco . 
If this does not happen , we may lose our European farming activity and our food chain industry . 
Bluetongue is a disease affecting ruminants such as cattle , sheep and goats . 
For this reason , Directive 2000/75/EC allows vaccination only in specially designated zones in which the disease has occurred and which have been subject to animal movement restrictions . 
Unlike the ` live attenuated vaccines ' , these inactivated vaccines do not pose the risk of undesired vaccine virus circulation and could therefore be successfully used outside areas subject to animal movement restrictions . 
in writing . - I voted against . 
I am extremely glad that , in the end , the pro-nuclear lobby has failed . 
I support this claim by the EP that strongly condemns the violent repression by security forces of peaceful demonstrators in Bahrain , Syria and Yemen , and extends its condolences to the families of the victims ; expresses its solidarity with the people in those countries , applauds their courage and determination , and strongly supports their legitimate democratic aspirations . 
It also urges the authorities of Bahrain , Syria and Yemen to refrain from the use of violence against protestors and to respect their right to freedom of assembly and expression ; condemns the interference by the authorities in Bahrain and Yemen in the provision of medical treatment and the denial and limiting of access to health facilities ; stresses that those responsible for the loss of life and injuries caused should be held accountable and brought to justice ; and calls on the authorities to immediately release all political prisoners , human rights defenders and journalists and all those detained in relation to their peaceful activities in the context of the protests . 
It is concerned at the current political situation , including the boycott of the national parliament by the opposition parties , and by the risk that these developments could adversely affect the country 's EU agenda and recalls its previous recommendation to the Council to start the negotiations immediately . 
I join my voice to those that welcome the progress in relations between the EU and neighbouring countries within the ENP and reaffirm the values , principles and commitments upon which the ENP has been built , which include democracy , the rule of law , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms , a market economy , sustainable development and good governance ; consider that the ENP is still a framework of strategic importance for deepening and strengthening relations with our closest partners so as to support their political , social and economic reforms , and underline the importance of maintaining the principle of joint ownership in the design and implementation of programmes and actions . 
The EP reaffirms the values , principles and commitments upon which the ENP has been built , which include democracy , the rule of law , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for women 's rights , good governance , the market economy and sustainable development , and reiterates that the ENP has to become a valid framework for the deepening and strengthening of relations with our closest partners so as to encourage and support their political , social and economic reforms , which are designed to establish and consolidate democracy , progress and social and economic opportunities for all ; emphasises the importance of maintaining the principles of shared responsibility and joint ownership in the conception and implementation of ENP programmes ; considers that since its launch in 2004 , the ENP , as a single policy framework and through its performance-driven differentiation and tailor-made assistance , has brought tangible benefits both for ENP partners and the EU . 
Although it is not a text that we , as Greens , would have drafted ourselves , we thought the text acceptable enough to vote in favour of it . 
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . - Mr President , I believe it is simply outrageous that the Tibetans living in Kathmandu did not get permission to vote in the elections because of pressure from China . 
The pressure China is putting on Nepal , preventing refugees from enjoying a minimum level of rights under international law , is something that we as the European Union should condemn . 
We should also express our concern at the fact that the Chinese are preventing another country from providing people with humanitarian aid . 
It is important that the High Representative , through the EU delegation in Kathmandu , should closely monitor the situation . 
The pressure from China is something that we have to do everything we can to counter , and if we do not do it right now , when we are trying to launch this dialogue with the Chinese , I am afraid that we will never do it . 
in writing . - This grants the Director of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre 's budget for the 2009 financial year . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the Community Fisheries Control Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency 's budget for the 2009 financial year . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the European Aviation Safety Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Director of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control discharge in respect of the implementation of the Centre 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the European Chemicals Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the European Environment Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the European Food Safety Authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the Authority 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Director of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the Centre 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the European Maritime Safety Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the European Network and Information Security Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Director of the European Railway Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency 's budget for the 2009 financial year . 
in writing . - This grants the Director of the European Training Foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation 's budget for the 2009 financial year . 
in writing . - This grants the Director of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency 's budget for the 2009 financial year . 
in writing . - This grants the Director-General of the Euratom Supply Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency 's budget for the 2009 financial year . 
in writing . - This grants the Director of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the Foundation 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Administrative Director of Eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of Eurojust 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the European GNSS Supervisory Authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the Authority 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the Artemis Joint Undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the Joint Undertaking for the implementation of the Joint Technology Initiative on Innovative Medicines discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Executive Director of the SESAR Joint Undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This is to defend the immunity of Mr de Magistris , as in giving the interview in question Mr de Magistris was acting in performance of his duties as an MEP and carrying out political activities by expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents . 
in writing . - The case concerned does not fall within the scope of Mr Gollnisch 's political activities as an MEP but it relates to his purely regional and local capacity as Rhône-Alpes regional councillor . 
Thus we have decided not to defend the immunity . 
in writing . - The case is identical to the previous one ( see , but here the request for the waiver of immunity was forwarded by the French authorities . 
For these reasons , the three countries concerned signed the Agreement on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Prespa Park Area on 2 February 2010 , with the participation of the EU . 
The purpose of the agreement is to establish cooperation so as to ensure the integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the Prespa Park area , including the drawing up of integrated river basin management plans , in accordance with international and EU standards . 
Under Article 218 ( 6 ) ( a ) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union , the Council must secure the consent of the European Parliament in order to adopt the agreement . 
in writing . - Illegal , unreported and unregulated ( IUU ) fishing remains one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources . 
The fight against IUU fishing is an essential component of the common fisheries policy , and the EU should be able to foster international cooperation on this matter by participating actively and constructively in the adoption of an international instrument on port state measures . 
The EU is a member of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and of 13 regional fisheries management organisations ( RFMOs ) . 
Port state mechanisms adopted within RFMOs have been implemented through EU law , which also provides for comprehensive rules on access to port services , landings and transhipments of fisheries products by third-country vessels in EU ports , and cooperation and assistance mechanisms between the EU and third countries . 
in writing . - Millions of businesses make use of the right to trade in the EU 's Internal Market . 
Millions of citizens make use of the right to live , work and travel across the EU . 
It is essential that in the Internal Market citizens have effective remedies in the event they have a claim against another citizen or business . 
in writing . - This grants the Commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009 , and sets out its observations in the resolution that forms an integral part of the Decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009 , Section III - Commission and executive agencies , and in its resolution on conclusions concerning the special reports issued by the Court of Auditors . 
in writing . - Among other things , the adopted text establishes that the EP takes note of the budgetary constraints many Member States face as a result of the financial and economic crisis and the need to critically review potential savings at all levels including at Union level ; and , in light of this situation , stresses that real savings could be achieved if Parliament only had one workplace in the same location . 
in writing . - This grants the Secretary-General of the Court of Auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the Court of Auditors budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Secretary-General of the European Economic and Social Committee discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Economic and Social Committee budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Secretary-General of the Committee of the Regions discharge in respect of the implementation of the Committee of the Regions budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This grants the Commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Eighth , Ninth and Tenth European Development Funds for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - This postpones Parliament 's decision on granting the Executive Director of the European Medicines Agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency 's budget for the 2009 financial year . 
in writing . - This grants the Director of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights discharge in respect of the implementation of the Agency 's budget for the financial year 2009 . 
in writing . - I have voted AGAINST granting the Director of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the Joint Undertaking 's budget for the 2009 financial year . 
in writing . - The Greens welcomed from the start the idea of supporting Pakistan 's efforts to overcome the hunger and misery following the floods . 
However , our main criticism was that it was a measure focusing on a country affected by terrorism without naming this political agenda , and without embedding the measures in a set of measures concerning the political context . 
Furthermore , the Greens feared that the measures might pave the way for the inclusion of Pakistan in the GSP + scheme without the country having signed and implemented the corresponding labour and environmental conventions ( let alone the Geneva Conventions ) . 
Finally , the Greens wished to exclude ethanol from the list of duty-free products , as it would be made out of sugar cane , which would replace food crops , constitutes a GHG-intensive crop and does not create a significant number of jobs . 
Unfortunately , none of the Green amendments was adopted in INTA . 
The text has finally been referred back to the committee . 
in writing . - As we feared , the tight vote against us in the Committee on International Trade on the crucial Article 5 ( review of Member States ' existing bilateral investment treaties ( BITs ) ) and Article 6 ( the possibility of withdrawing authorisation for a BIT ) of Carl Schlyter 's report on ` Transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between Member States and third countries ' has been confirmed by the vote in plenary . 
We had made it easier for Members to vote with us by tabling amendments on Articles 5 and 6 , going just halfway towards what we had wanted ( and had lost at the committee stage ) . 
We thus left it to the S&D Group to re-table the original texts , in order to be perceived as representing the middle ground . 
Unfortunately , that strategy did not work out . 
We had a roll-call vote on this and we will analyse whether we nonetheless captured some support in the ALDE Group . 
We also lost our amendments concerning better transparency rules . 
We won only one amendment , of minor importance , on the recitals , which was clearly ` granted ' to us by the EPP and ALDE Groups in order to appease us so that the Greens/EFA position in the final vote would be positive . 
However , we chose to reject the report ( which was approved by 345 to 246 votes ) . 
in writing . - With this ` whereas , according to the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission , the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance , the EP adopts its position at first reading , taking over the Commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the Consultative Working Party of the legal services of the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission ' . 
in writing . - In its position at first reading , adopted on 18 May 2010 , the European Parliament approved , by a very large majority , 63 amendments . 
The vast majority were technical amendments aimed at aligning the text with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with the new legislative framework for the marketing of goods . 
Parliament also adopted a number of substantive amendments , including rules on origin marking , the indication of animal-derived materials , the use of language-independent symbols and a review clause . 
in writing . - Although the final vote was postponed , we voted on several amendments . 
These ` exceptional trade measures ' with the partners in the Western Balkans , under the EU Stabilisation and Association process , are indeed preferential tariff measures which guarantee easier access to the EU market for the partner countries ' exports . 
They need to be notified to the World Trade Organisation . 
The programme ran out at the end of 2010 , and what we have now is simply the extension to it . 
It has been blocked because of the delayed comitology decision . 
Early in January 2011 , the International Trade Committee made a proposal to the Council to ensure that the procedure was speeded up , but received no answer . 
Thus , Parliament had to await the adoption of the Szájer report on comitology in March in order to proceed further . 
An informal trialogue resolved the issue to permit adoption at first reading . 
The delay has created hardship in some receiving countries , and particularly in Kosovo , and Parliament has been wrongly blamed for this . 
in writing . - We had to abstain at the end . 
Our AMR , co-signed by S&D and aimed at giving the resolution a stronger regulatory flavour , was rejected . 
Amendments by the rapporteur to weaken the resolution were , however , adopted , as was the report containing very mixed messages . 
The key player on this in the EPP ( Karas ) was on our line , and as rapporteur for CRD IV ( the Capital Requirements Directive ) , he will be given the task of dealing with corporate governance rules for financial institutions ( the follow-up to this INI ) . 
His group , in particular Vice-President Wortman-Kool , let him down ( again ) . 
Let us hope the actual legislation ( proposal expected in July ) will be treated with more care and determination . 
The EP is very much divided on the free trade agreement with India . 
The first compromise ( by EPP , ECR and ALDE ) was adopted with 390 in favour , 276 against , and 10 abstentions . 
The hope of sending a strong message to the negotiators to conclude the FTA with India failed . 
The EPP , ECR and ALDE resolution recommending rushing into a complete opening of the Indian market at all levels , without binding language on human and labour rights , CSR , environmental dumping , etc. did not get the overwhelming majority it needed if it wanted to be a recommendation for the negotiators . 
The ` counter-resolution ' by the Greens/S & D and GUE , which did not come to a vote , had solid support and will certainly be read by the negotiators . 
The very worst in the EPP , ECR and ALDE compromise was avoided . 
in writing . - Three of our six amendments were adopted : the one calling for separate budget lines on common security and defence policy missions , the one calling on the Council and the Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to overcome the imbalance between civilian and military planning capabilities , and the one on the urgency of addressing water management issues in Central Asia . 
As for Syria , the S&D Group amendment was adopted , causing our amendment calling for the resignation of Assad to fall . 
in writing . - I decided to abstain at the final vote because we lost Amendment 1 on reference to NATO , Amendment 3 against a nuclear dimension in the common security and defence policy , Amendment 4 against flexible use of Battlegroups , Amendment 5 against using Battlegroups for mixed civilian-military tasks , Amendment 6 deleting a provision on defence research , Amendment 7 deleting a provision on defence research , Amendment 8 deleting reference to the US Department of Homeland Security , Amendment 9 deleting reference to CSDP cooperation with Frontex in the Mediterranean , and despite the fact that we won Amendment 2 on European External Action Service/Commission permanent working structures and Amendment 1 saying no to NATO developing civilian capabilities . 
in writing . - Among other things , this text establishes that Parliament notes that the EU 's mechanisms for building consensus and taking concerted action make it a model for a rules-based international order . 
It therefore stresses the need for the EU to cooperate with leading regional powers and actively participate in the building and improvement of an international environment that enables the EU to promote , as required by the Treaty , its values and interests . 
In particular in those fields where it has exclusive or shared competences , it considers essential , with regard to the EU 's aspiration and need to be an effective global actor and to safeguard its position , a strengthening of the internal coordination necessary to speak with one voice , the ability to shape multilateral cooperation and lead collective action in addressing international challenges , namely those arising from the responsibility to protect , and the need to enhance human security , as a means of achieving global security . 
in writing . - Funding for programmes such as Lifelong Learning ( Erasmus , Leonardo da Vinci , Comenius , Grundtvig ) , Marie Curie , Erasmus Mundus and Youth in Action must increase . 
The committee proposes to create international cooperation networks at universities , making use of virtual mobility . 
Mobility programmes should be available to vocational students , teachers and youth workers . 
Finally , we call for extra support for disabled young people , young parents and those who wish to get back into education . 
in writing . - Early learning in the EU follows a long and finely differentiated tradition in the different Member States . 
It seems important to define a framework of values and common objectives which could be set as a goal in all Member States , while the sharing of good practices remains the key to providing high quality service , with the child 's needs and care at the core of all endeavours . 
The report focuses its recommendations on the balance between the role of Member States and the Commission ; the necessity to make early school a broader service inspired by good practices in Member States where ` maternelles ' and kindergartens are a right of parents ; inclusion of all children , whatever their social background ( ` notion of public service ' ) ; caring for migrant children and their integration in early schools ; the inclusion of arts and all tools to enhance the children 's creativity ; training of educators for better intercultural skills ; gender parity while working in structures for early learning ; and creation of new and well qualified jobs . 
in writing . - With this , the EP firstly welcomes the Commission 's proposal to open negotiations on the renewal of the protocol between the EU and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania , while underlining that it should be maintained only if it is mutually beneficial , adjusted appropriately and implemented correctly ; secondly , welcomes the Commission 's proposal to introduce a human rights clause ; thirdly , insists that any and all access negotiated for EU-flagged vessels to fish in Mauritanian waters must be based on the principle of surplus stocks as described in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea ; emphasises , in particular , that there must be a rigorous assessment of all stocks for which access is sought or which are likely to be caught by the EU fleet as by-catch ; stresses that any access granted to the EU must relate to those resources which are unable to be caught by the Mauritanian fleet ; emphasises that , should effort reductions be necessary , those third-country ( EU and other ) fleets causing the most environmental damage must be the first to make reductions ; 
in writing . - We finally abstained due to the fact that several EPP and ECR amendments , inadmissible to us , were adopted . 
in writing . - The resolution focuses , in particular , on : ( 1 ) the regulatory environment , calling for better implementation of the SME test - in particular , in Member States - and for a reduction in bureaucracy and administrative burdens ; ( 2 ) improving SMEs ' access to finance through additional funding and instruments within the EIB ( such as the RSFF and equity financing ) and an enlarged ( and independent ) CIP ; ( 3 ) improvements needed to ensure the participation of SMEs in public procurement ; ( 4 ) simplification and better targeted R&D&I programmes to promote SMEs ' innovation management capacity , access to R&D&I services and knowledge-based business services , through , for instance , technology transfer centres and universities ; ( 5 ) the need for more attention to be paid to skills needed and other social and labour market issues affecting entrepreneurship and SMEs ' capacities to fulfil their employment potential , in particular , managerial skills , digital skills and sustainability skills ; ( 6 ) action to improve resource efficiency : sectoral SME projects to identify resource efficiency innovation in the value and supply chains ; the adoption of an ambitious eco-innovation action plan and more funds for it through the CIP ; more cost-effective energy efficiency measures to help SMEs reduce energy bills ; 
in writing . - We broadly supported the draft report and submitted a series of amendments which have mostly been included , for instance : an emphasis on green priority objectives : energy and climate change , resource efficiency , regeneration of biological resources and promoting social cohesion ; addressing eco-innovation at all stages , including design , through the adoption of a properly funded and ambitious eco-innovation action plan , as well as the adoption of a strategy for promoting product/service systems and function-oriented business models ; promoting the use of open standards as drivers for innovation and open access to publicly funded research , as well as focusing public financing on socially valuable fields where knowledge is created as a public good , such as inducement prizes in the health sector ( we also tried , with varying degrees of success , to propose better wording for IPR issues ) ; we managed to retain the wording welcoming the Commission 's efforts to prevent IPR from constituting a barrier to competition and innovation . 
in writing . - With this , the EP : ( 1 ) welcomes and supports the ILO initiative to adopt a convention supplemented by a recommendation for decent work for domestic workers ; calls on those EU Member States which are members of the ILO to adopt these instruments at the ILO conference in June 2011 ; calls on the EU Member States to ratify and implement the convention and recommendation quickly ; ( 2 ) considers that the adoption , ratification and implementation of an ILO convention on decent work for domestic workers can have an impact by reducing the numbers of working poor ; ( 3 ) considers that the adoption , ratification and implementation of such a convention would address the needs of one of the most vulnerable categories of workers ; 
in writing . - With this , the EP : 1 . 
in writing . - The report did envisage at first the field of external relations at the EU level almost exclusively under the new media perspectives . 
This is still quite present , as well as the idea that the EU should export its culture . 
The Greens insisted on the promotion of ` cultural cooperation ' instead . 
Some of the recommendations adopted in the Committee on Culture and Education do not really create something new , like an information website on EU culture programmes and external relations , together with the calendar of EU events in the whole world plus contacts with Civil Society . 
Some articles , like Article 44 on supporting national efforts to implement the protection and preservation of cultural heritage , illegal trade of heritage or products of cultural creation , do not give much sense to the issue itself . 
In a nutshell , the report fails really to tackle the issue and assembles bits and pieces alongside the present existing possibilities to put culture on the agenda both for the EU and between the EU and third countries . 
It is a new chapter in an effort to fully use culture as a tool for peace . 
The challenge of globalisation and the arrival of the digital age are providing these industries with major new opportunities to develop , and can improve their hitherto largely untapped potential to create growth and jobs . 
There is a need for strategic investment to enable cultural and creative industries to invigorate cultural diversity , social and territorial cohesion , growth and employment . 
To this end , there must be adequate funding , support for CCIs to develop in their local and regional environments , and a move towards a creative economy by catalysing their spillover effects on a wide range of economic and social contexts . 
The greater the availability of European audiovisual content , the greater the potential of characteristically European content to influence cultural diversity . 
In addition , the creative sector makes a significant contribution to the development of information and communication technologies , and plays a major role at local , regional and national levels . 
in writing . - With this resolution , Parliament : ( 1 ) calls on the Council to award the title ` European Capital of Culture ' exceptionally to Sarajevo in 2014 ; and ( 2 ) asserts its belief that this would be an important step towards transcending past European divisions and showcasing the new Europe by awarding the title ` European Capital of Culture ' to a city which was the site of such tragic events in the course of the 20th century . 
author . - Mr President , once again , I deplore the persisting climate of fear and intimidation towards political opponents in Belarus and the ongoing harassment and persecution of opposition figures since the presidential elections in December 2010 . 
I consider that this conduct of the trials lacked impartiality . 
Finally , I condemn the lack of respect for the fundamental rights of freedom of assembly and of expression shown by the Belarusian authorities and call for the immediate and unconditional release of the remaining protestors still in custody and for all charges against them to be dropped . 
The case relates to an alleged offence of defamation which does not come within the scope of Ms Hankiss ' political activities as an MEP , but relates instead to a statement made in 2004 , before she was elected an MEP . 
The rapporteur has also found no evidence of fumus persecutionis . 
In the ambit of the better law making approach , the Commission proposes to repeal a 1998 Council Regulation under which importers have to provide proof of origin of textiles and articles of apparel for EU customs procedures . 
This system is deemed sufficient . 
All in all , Parliament is advocating a new ` made in ' labelling regime , which is currently a Sleeping Beauty after the conclusion of the first reading in 2010 . 
Such a regime would provide much better control possibilities - and also consumer information - than the old Proof of Origin Regulations . 
in writing . - I abstained on the Eurovignette vote today . 
I abstained because , in the case of Catalonia , what is proposed would penalise a lot of small and medium enterprises that do not have the option of putting goods and products on trains - in particular , because of the difference of gauge , which constitutes a physical barrier to completion of the Internal Market - and would damage their business greatly . 
in writing . - We voted in favour . 
The proposal creates environmental economic accounts as satellite accounts to ESA 95 by providing methodology , common standards , definitions , classifications and accounting rules , intended to be used for compiling environmental economic accounts . 
At the initial stage , the environmental accounts to be compiled within the common framework shall be grouped in the following modules : a module for air emissions accounts ; a module for environmentally related taxes by economic activities ; a module for economy-wide material flow accounts . 
On the basis of our amendments adopted in the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Food Safety , the compromise negotiated with the Council contains , in addition to the accounts initially proposed , a requirement for the Commission to report by the end of 2013 and examine extension of the accounts to cover material stocks ( and not only flows ) as well as eco-system services . 
Agreement on this requirement for Member States to provide data with harmonised methodology on environmental economy is actually a positive concrete step in the ` beyond GDP ' process . 
in writing . - We support the accession of Bulgaria and Romania provided that all preconditions are met ( as is the case , according to the experts ' opinion ) . 
We recommend that the Council advances effective multilateralism as the overriding strategic concern of the Union and strengthens the coherence and visibility of the EU as a global actor at the UN , inter alia , by better coordinating internal EU consultation on UN issues and by promoting greater outreach on a wide range of issues . 
The Vice-President/High Representative ( VP/HR ) should be authorised to draft guidelines for regular consultations between the ambassadors of the Member States and the EU ambassadors , especially between those working at a multilateral level in places like Geneva and New York , so that the EU can successfully pursue its UN agenda and meet the expectations of UN members regarding its ability to act . 
Greater cohesion should be fostered both within the UN system and between the positions of EU Member States and candidate and potential candidate countries , so as to maximise the potential offered by the Lisbon Treaty to strengthen the EU 's impact through the coordinated and strategic use of its various and distinct ( EU and Member State ) entry points . 
Its ability to negotiate with other regional groups should be enhanced in a timely manner and the EU representatives provided with a proper mandate to negotiate effectively on behalf of the Member States . 
For instance : more open access and dissemination of research results , wider calls in the field of socio-economic sciences , more collaborative research , efforts to improve the mobility of researchers , more actions for innovative SMEs , better coordination with the Member States . 
The report does not cover the issue of ITER or of Galileo investments . 
On the negative side , the text is sometimes too much oriented towards the economic role and competitiveness of research and innovation rather than towards what research and innovation can bring to society as a whole . 
Negotiations with Canada on a far-reaching Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) are well advanced and could be concluded this autumn . 
The CETA is by far the most ambitious bilateral FTA the EU has ever negotiated under the 2006 ` Global Europe ' trade strategy . 
It includes far-reaching chapters on Services , Procurement , Investment Protection , Intellectual Property and Regulatory Cooperation . 
However , developments in the regulatory framework have made these ` information intermediaries ' de facto ` regulatory licensors ' . 
According to Cedefop 's current Europe-wide skill supply and demand forecast , the number of new jobs up to 2020 is estimated at 80 million . 
in writing . - We abstained . 
Moreover , we presented an alternative resolution in which we wanted to clarify the role of impact assessment and external experts in the impact assessment process . 
Impact assessment can only be an aid for making political decisions and should never replace political decisions within the democratic decision-making process . 
The potential benefits of European contract law for the Internal Market have been discussed in the interinstitutional framework and with the broad public for a many years , and Parliament pronounced for the first time on the issue in 1989 . 
The Commission broadened the debate by issuing its communication of 2001 , focusing on possible problems which divergences in contract law might raise within the Internal Market and on possible options for action . 
Within the light of the responses to this consultation , the Commission issued an action plan in 2003 , proposing , inter alia , the elaboration of a common frame of reference and containing definitions , common principles and model rules , with a view to improving the quality and coherence of European contract law . 
Our concerns are mainly about the speed with which some wish to pursue this , despite the numerous questions we still have . 
As my colleague , Bas Eickhout , said before , freezing or decreasing the EU 's budget post-2013 is not a credible approach if the EU and its Member States are serious about achieving the policy priorities they have set themselves , notably in the Europe 2020 strategy . 
Coordinating EU funding and actions is clearly a better way for us to achieve our common goals , as opposed to individual actions . 
We welcome the fact that MEPs have clearly set out their stall to this end ahead of the forthcoming debate on the future financing of the EU . 
The EU needs a proper and predictable system for financing its own budget in order to end the perpetual , damaging squabbling over national contributions to the EU budget . 
Introducing a true and meaningful ` own-resources ' system for financing the EU budget is the only way to achieve this and we are happy that the EP has thrown its weight behind this long-standing Green priority . 
in writing . - I am glad the EP welcomes the peaceful and credible conduct of both Sudan and South Sudan in the 2011 Southern Sudan Referendum , the efforts by all parties to the CPA and the commitment they have demonstrated to it ; views this as a crucial step in implementing the CPA and as a positive sign for the peaceful coexistence of both countries ; reiterates its full respect for the outcome of the referendum as the expression of the democratic will of the people of South Sudan ; calls on both North and South Sudan actively to pursue the promotion of democratic governance and the establishment of long-term peace , security and prosperity for both countries , with respect for human , social and economic rights ; calls on the South Sudan authorities to promote the development of South Sudan as a modern , pluralistic , democratic state based on the rule of law and respecting human rights , in particular , women 's and children 's rights , and the primacy of the right of citizens to choose their government through regular free elections , with protection of freedom of movement , freedom of association and freedom to express one 's political views enshrined in both constitution and law . 
in writing . - The EP : regrets that , contrary to Russia 's obligations as a member of the Council of Europe to uphold freedom of assembly , peaceful citizens ' gatherings continue to be banned and violently dispersed , including a gay pride march in Moscow for the sixth consecutive year , disregarding a final ruling made in April 2011 by the European Court of Human Rights ; expects EU delegations and diplomats to actively implement the Toolkit to Promote and Protect the Enjoyment of All Human Rights by LGBT People in the future . 
Mr President , as agreed with the coordinator of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy , its chairman and the chairman of the Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs , the text of the oral amendment is the following : 
`` Demands that the Ecofin Council should accept the recommendation of the European Commission for the broad economic guidelines as supported by the present resolution of the European Parliament . ' 
Mr President , in the Basque country we have examined with interest the whole Palestinian peace process , because we also support in Euskal Herria the need to overcome the current political conflict through democratic settlements . 
We are much concerned about the fact that the impression most people get from the current talks in the Middle East is a positive one . 
As a matter of fact there is no real peace process going on because the most important issues to be tackled have not been agreed upon . 
And , finally , the lack of solutions for the Palestinian refugees living outside their country , who have the right to return to their home . 
Meanwhile , Israel does not respect the Accords signed with the representatives of the Palestinian people . 
There is only one solution - a solution based on the peace process , that also takes into account also the will and the right to self-determination of the Palestinian people . 
Mr President , we can not accept Turkey as a candidate for the European Union , because of its attitude of constantly denying the slightest recognition to the Kurdish people . 
This morning , as usual , we have heard speakers from different groups of this House mentioning the Kurdish minority in Turkey . 
It is crystal clear that there is a Kurdish people , as our colleague , Mr Sakellariou , pointed out during the debate . 
The European Parliament ought to realise that there is no Kurdish minority in Kurdistan , just as there is no Basque minority in the Basque country . 
We want to see Kurdistan closer to the European Union . 
Mr President , by now it is crystal clear that most colleagues in this House share my conviction that the tragedy of Chechnya could have been avoided if the European Union had shown a firm attitude towards the Russian aggression . 
Instead , we have witnessed in recent days a most deplorable sight with the Russian Foreign Minister in Madrid and with the Russian Prime Minister in Tampere . 
Mr Sasi mentioned the particular significance for the Finnish people of the place where the meeting was held in Helsinki . 
Finland is now an independent country . 
How can the European Union deny this very right to the Chechen people ? 
Can we stand any longer the imperialistic policy of Russia towards small nations like Chechnya ? 
A few minutes ago Mr Patten mentioned Kaliningrad and I recall the historical shelter of the people of Kaliningrad , formerly Königsberg . 
Can we accept that only these particular countries are well protected ? 
Madam President , I want to add my voice to celebrate this historic agreement . 
You have already sent a letter conveying our best wishes to the Northern Ireland authorities . 
Could you send another letter to invite our Northern Ireland friends , the executive , to pay a visit to the Parliament . 
I feel that it is our duty to mention the role that one of our colleagues , Mr John Hume , has played in this process . 
He is in better shape after four operations and a long convalescence and I hope that he will be back among us very soon . 
Madam President , I would just like to say that it is inadmissible in a democracy to let people of one political persuasion speak about the Basque country and not to allow anyone of a different political persuasion to speak . 
So I protest very strongly . 
I would like to have three minutes , which is a fraction of the length of time this subject has been discussed , just to explain my point of view . 
I know many people here are very fond of democracy and the ways of parliamentarism . 
Could I speak , Madam President ? 
Mr President , when a Parliament , in a most irresponsible way , closes the door to political opinions , as happened yesterday among us , it is opening wide the door to armed struggle . 
We , Euskal Herritarrok , believe that political conflicts have to be settled by political means , but what we have seen in this House was in fact support for violence . 
This Parliament undoubtedly backed the Northern Ireland peace process , and I also wholeheartedly congratulate the Irish people and everybody inside the United Kingdom for their success . 
The 1993 Downing Street Declaration , recognising the right to self determination of the Irish people , shows us better than anything else that only through political negotiation can a real and lasting solution be found anywhere . 
Could we expect a similar analysis from the European Union to the on-going political conflict existing in the Basque country ? 
Could your European Parliament , Mr President , highlight the example of John Major and David Trimble to show Mr Jospin and Mr Aznar the path they have to embark on immediately ? 
I would like to make a point of order under Rule 108 related to Rule 112 . 
One of the hunger strikers , after 44 days of fasting , has today been transferred to the Hôtel de Dieu Hospital in Paris in extremely poor health after losing 24 kilos . 
Eighteen years have passed since the courageous Westminster MP Bobbie Sands and 10 other Irish political prisoners staged a hunger strike to death . 
Only when the hunger striker was out of the way did the Thatcherite Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , James Prior , acknowledge that the British Government was ready to accept reforms . 
